Philosophy of information - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Philosophy of information From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Information science General aspects Information access · Information architecture Information management Information retrieval Information seeking · Information society Knowledge organization · Ontology Philosophy of information Science, technology and society Related fields and sub-fields Bibliometrics · Categorization Censorship · Classification Computer data storage · Cultural studies Data modeling · Informatics Information technology Intellectual freedom Intellectual property · Memory Library and information science Preservation · Privacy Information science portal v t e The philosophy of information (PI) is the area of research that studies conceptual issues arising at the intersection of computer science, information science, information technology, and philosophy. It includes: the critical investigation of the conceptual nature and basic principles of information, including its dynamics, utilisation and sciences the elaboration and application of information-theoretic and computational methodologies to philosophical problems.[1] Contents 1 History 1.1 Logic of information 1.2 Cybernetics 1.3 Study of language and information 1.4 P.I. 2 Definitions of "information" 2.1 Peirce 2.2 Shannon and Weaver 2.3 Bateson 2.4 Floridi 3 Philosophical directions 3.1 Computing and philosophy 3.2 Information and society 4 See also 5 Notes 6 Further reading 7 External links History[edit] The philosophy of information (PI) has evolved from the Philosophy of artificial intelligence, logic of information, cybernetics, social theory, ethics and the study of language and information. Logic of information[edit] The logic of information, also known as the logical theory of information, considers the information content of logical signs and expressions along the lines initially developed by Charles Sanders Peirce. Cybernetics[edit] One source for the philosophy of information can be found in the technical work of Norbert Wiener, Alan Turing, William Ross Ashby, Claude Shannon, Warren Weaver, and many other scientists working on computing and information theory back in the early 1950s. See the main article on Cybernetics. Some important work on information and communication was done by Gregory Bateson and his colleagues. Study of language and information[edit] Later contributions to the field were made by Fred Dretske, Jon Barwise, Brian Cantwell Smith, and others. The Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI) was founded at Stanford University in 1983 by philosophers, computer scientists, linguists, and psychologists, under the direction of John Perry and Jon Barwise. P.I.[edit] More recently this field has become known as the philosophy of information. The expression was coined in the 1990s by Luciano Floridi, who has published prolifically in this area with the intention of elaborating a unified and coherent, conceptual frame for the whole subject. Definitions of "information"[edit] The concept information has been defined by several theorists. Peirce[edit] Charles S. Peirce's theory of information was embedded in his wider theory of symbolic communication he called the semeiotic, now a major part of semiotics. For Peirce, information integrates the aspects of signs and expressions separately covered by the concepts of denotation and extension, on the one hand, and by connotation and comprehension on the other. Shannon and Weaver[edit] Claude E. Shannon, for his part, was very cautious: "The word 'information' has been given different meanings by various writers in the general field of information theory. It is likely that at least a number of these will prove sufficiently useful in certain applications to deserve further study and permanent recognition. It is hardly to be expected that a single concept of information would satisfactorily account for the numerous possible applications of this general field." (Shannon 1993, p. 180). Thus, following Shannon, Weaver supported a tripartite analysis of information in terms of (1) technical problems concerning the quantification of information and dealt with by Shannon's theory; (2) semantic problems relating to meaning and truth; and (3) what he called "influential" problems concerning the impact and effectiveness of information on human behaviour, which he thought had to play an equally important role. And these are only two early examples of the problems raised by any analysis of information. A map of the main senses in which one may speak of information is provided by the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article. The previous paragraphs are based on it. Bateson[edit] Gregory Bateson defined information as "a difference that makes a difference".[2] which is based on MacKay: information is a distinction that makes a difference.[3] Floridi[edit] According to Luciano Floridi, four kinds of mutually compatible phenomena are commonly referred to as "information": Information about something (e.g. a train timetable) Information as something (e.g. DNA, or fingerprints) Information for something (e.g. algorithms or instructions) Information in something (e.g. a pattern or a constraint). The word "information" is commonly used so metaphorically or so abstractly that the meaning is unclear. Philosophical directions[edit] Computing and philosophy[edit] Recent creative advances and efforts in computing, such as semantic web, ontology engineering, knowledge engineering, and modern artificial intelligence provide philosophy with fertile notions, new and evolving subject matters, methodologies, and models for philosophical inquiry. While computer science brings new opportunities and challenges to traditional philosophical studies, and changes the ways philosophers understand foundational concepts in philosophy, further major progress in computer science would only be feasible when philosophy provides sound foundations for areas such as bioinformatics, software engineering, knowledge engineering, and ontologies. Classical topics in philosophy, namely, mind, consciousness, experience, reasoning, knowledge, truth, morality and creativity are rapidly becoming common concerns and foci of investigation in computer science, e.g., in areas such as agent computing, software agents, and intelligent mobile agent technologies.[citation needed] According to L. Floridi "[4] one can think of several ways for applying computational methods towards philosophical matters: Conceptual experiments in silico: As an innovative extension of an ancient tradition of thought experiment, a trend has begun in philosophy to apply computational modeling schemes to questions in logic, epistemology, philosophy of science, philosophy of biology, philosophy of mind, and so on. Pancomputationalism: By this view, computational and informational concepts are considered to be so powerful that given the right Level of abstraction, anything in the world could be modeled and represented as a computational system, and any process could be simulated computationally. Then, however, pancomputationalists have the hard task of providing credible answers to the following two questions: how can one avoid blurring all differences among systems? what would it mean for the system under investigation not to be an informational system (or a computational system, if computation is the same as information processing)? Information and society[edit] Philosophical studies of the social and cultural aspects of electronically mediated information have been carried out by numerous philosophers and other thinkers. Albert Borgmann, Holding onto Reality: The Nature of Information at the Turn of the Millennium (Chicago University Press, 1999) Mark Poster, The Mode of Information (Chicago Press, 1990) Luciano Floridi, Informational Nature of Reality, Key Talk selected at the E-CAP conference 2006 (Trondheim, 2006) See also[edit] Barwise prize Complex system Digital philosophy Digital physics Game theory Informatics Information Information art Information ethics Information philosophy Information theory International Association for Computing and Philosophy Logic of information Philosophy of artificial intelligence Philosophy of computer science Philosophy of technology Philosophy of thermal and statistical physics Physical information Relational quantum mechanics Social informatics Statistical mechanics Notes[edit] ^ Luciano Floridi, "What is the Philosophy of Information?", Metaphilosophy, 2002, (33), 1/2. ^ Extract from "Steps to an Ecology of Mind" ^ The Philosophy of Information. Luciano Floridi. Chapter 4. Oxford University Press, USA (March 8, 2011) ASIN: 0199232385 [1] ^ [Broken Reference:page 404'd]Luciano Floridi, Open Problems in the Philosophy of Information Metaphilosophy 35.4, 554-582. Revised version of The Herbert A. Simon Lecture on Computing and Philosophy given at Carnegie Mellon University in 2001, with RealVideo and powerpoint presentation Further reading[edit] Luciano Floridi, "What is the Philosophy of Information?" Metaphilosophy, 33.1/2: 123-145. Reprinted in T.W. Bynum and J.H. Moor (eds.), 2003. CyberPhilosophy: The Intersection of Philosophy and Computing. Oxford – New York: Blackwell. -------- (ed.), 2004. The Blackwell Guide to the Philosophy of Computing and Information. Oxford - New York: Blackwell. Greco, G.M., Paronitti G., Turilli M., and Floridi L., 2005. How to Do Philosophy Informationally. Lecture Notes on Artificial Intelligence 3782, pp. 623–634. External links[edit] Library resources about Philosophy of information Resources in your library Resources in other libraries Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: Philosophy of information IEG site, the Oxford University research group on the philosophy of information. Philosophy of Information website. Luciano Floridi, "Where are we in the philosophy of information?" University of Bergen, Norway. Podcast dated 21.06.06.   Links to related articles v t e Philosophy   Branches of philosophy Traditional Metaphysics Epistemology Logic Ethics Aesthetics Philosophy of Action Art Being Biology Business Chemistry Computer science Culture Design Dialogue Education Economics Engineering Environment Film Futility Geography Information Healthcare History Human nature Humor Justice Language Law Literature Mathematics Mind Music Pain Philosophy Physics Politics Psychology Religion Science Sexuality Social science Society Space and time Technology War   Schools of thought in philosophy By era Ancient Western Medieval Renaissance Modern Contemporary Ancient Chinese Agriculturalism Confucianism Legalism Logicians Mohism Chinese naturalism Neotaoism Taoism Yangism Zen Greco-Roman Aristotelianism Cynicism Epicureanism Hermeneutics Neoplatonism Peripatetic Platonism Presocratic Pythagoreanism Sophism Stoicism Indian Buddhist C?rv?ka Hindu Jain Persian Mazdakism Zoroastrianism Zurvanism Medieval 9th – 16th century Christian Europe Scholasticism Renaissance humanism Thomism East Asian Korean Confucianism Rigaku Neo-Confucianism Indian Navya-Ny?ya Vishishtadvaita Dvaita Islamic Averroism Avicennism Persian Illuminationism Kalam Sufi Jewish Judeo-Islamic Modern 17th – 19th century Absolute idealism Anarchism Cartesianism Liberalism Dialectical materialism Empiricism Existentialism Hegelianism Idealism Kantianism Kokugaku Marxist philosophy Modernism Neo-Kantianism Neo-Thomism New Confucianism Phenomenology Pragmatism Rationalism Transcendentalism Utilitarianism Contemporary 20th – 21st century Analytic Analytic feminism Consequentialism Experimental philosophy Internalism and Externalism Falsificationism Foundationalism and Coherentism Logical positivism Legal positivism Quinean Naturalism Ordinary language philosophy Quietism Rawlsian Reformed epistemology Postanalytic philosophy Utilitarianism (contemporary) Neo-Aristotelian Vienna Circle Wittgensteinian Continental Critical theory Deconstruction Existentialism Feminist Frankfurt School Postmodernism Post-structuralism Social constructionism Structuralism Kyoto School Russian cosmism more...   Philosophical positions Aesthetics Formalism Institutionalism Aesthetic response Ethics Consequentialism Deontology Virtue Free will Compatibilism Determinism Libertarianism Metaphysics Atomism Dualism Monism Naturalism Epistemology Constructivism Empiricism Idealism Particularism Fideism Rationalism/Reasonism Skepticism/Nihilism Solipsism Mind Behaviorism Eliminativism Epiphenomenalism Functionalism Objectivism Subjectivism Normativity Absolutism Particularism Relativism Nihilism Skepticism Universalism Ontology Action Event Process Reality Anti-realism Conceptualism Idealism Materialism Naturalism Nominalism Realism   Philosophy by region Philosophy-related lists By region African Ethiopian Aztec Eastern Chinese Indian Indonesian Iranian Japanese Korean Pakistani Western American British Danish French German Greek Italian Polish Romanian Russian Slovene Lists Outline Index Years Problems Schools Glossary Philosophers Movements Publications Portal Category WikiProject Changes v t e Philosophy of language Philosophers Plato (Cratylus) Gorgias Confucius Xunzi Aristotle Stoics Pyrrhonists Scholasticism Ibn Rushd Ibn Khaldun Thomas Hobbes Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Johann Herder Ludwig Noire Wilhelm von Humboldt Fritz Mauthner Paul Ricœur Ferdinand de Saussure Gottlob Frege Franz Boas Paul Tillich Edward Sapir Leonard Bloomfield Zhuangzi Henri Bergson Lev Vygotsky Ludwig Wittgenstein Philosophical Investigations Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus Bertrand Russell Rudolf Carnap Jacques Derrida Of Grammatology Limited Inc Benjamin Lee Whorf Gustav Bergmann J. L. Austin Noam Chomsky Hans-Georg Gadamer Saul Kripke A. J. Ayer G. E. M. Anscombe Michael Dummett Donald Davidson Paul Grice Gilbert Ryle P. F. Strawson Willard Van Orman Quine Hilary Putnam John Searle Theories Causal theory of reference Contrast theory of meaning Contrastivism Conventionalism Cratylism Deconstruction Descriptivist theory of names Direct reference theory Dramatism Expressivism Linguistic determinism Logical atomism Logical positivism Mediated reference theory Nominalism Non-cognitivism Phallogocentrism Quietism Relevance theory Semantic externalism Semantic holism Structuralism Supposition theory Symbiosism Theological noncognitivism Theory of descriptions Verification theory Concepts Ambiguity Linguistic relativity Meaning Language Truth-bearer Proposition Use–mention distinction Concept Categories Set Class Intension Logical form Metalanguage Mental representation Principle of compositionality Property Sign Sense and reference Speech act Symbol Entity Sentence Statement more... Related articles Analytic philosophy Philosophy of information Philosophical logic Linguistics Pragmatics Rhetoric Semantics Formal semantics Semiotics Category Task Force Discussion v t e Philosophy of mind Philosophers Anscombe Austin Aquinas Bain Bergson Bhattacharya Block Brentano Broad Burge Chalmers Churchland Dennett Dharmakirti Davidson Descartes Goldman Heidegger Husserl Fodor James Kierkegaard Leibniz McDowell Merleau-Ponty Minsky Moore Nagel Parfit Putnam Popper Rorty Ryle Searle Spinoza Turing Vasubandhu Wittgenstein Zhuangzi more... Theories Behaviourism Biological naturalism Dualism Eliminative materialism Emergent materialism Epiphenomenalism Functionalism Idealism Interactionism Materialism Monism Naïve realism Neutral monism Phenomenalism Phenomenology Existential phenomenology Neurophenomenology Physicalism Identity theory Pragmatism Property dualism Representational theory of mind Solipsism Subjectivism Substance dualism Concepts Abstract object Artificial intelligence Chinese room Cognition Concept Concept and object Consciousness Hard problem of consciousness Hypostatic abstraction Idea Identity Ingenuity Intelligence Intentionality Introspection Intuition Language of thought Materialism Mental event Mental image Mental process Mental property Mental representation Mind Mind–body problem Pain Problem of other minds Propositional attitude Qualia Tabula rasa Understanding Zombie more... Related articles Metaphysics Philosophy of artificial intelligence Philosophy of information Philosophy of perception Philosophy of self Portal Category Task Force Discussion v t e Philosophy of science Related academic topics Alchemy Criticism of science Epistemology Faith and rationality History and philosophy of science History of science History of evolutionary thought Philosophy of artificial intelligence Philosophy of chemistry Philosophy of computer science Philosophy of biology Philosophy of environment Philosophy of information Philosophy of mind Philosophy of perception Philosophy of physics Philosophy of psychology Philosophy of social science Philosophy of space and time Philosophy of technology Philosophy of thermal and statistical physics Pseudoscience Relationship between religion and science Rhetoric of science Sociology of scientific knowledge more... Philosophers of science Adolf Grünbaum Albert Einstein Alfred North Whitehead Aristotle Auguste Comte Averroes Bas van Fraassen Berlin Circle Bertrand Russell Carl Gustav Hempel C. D. Broad Charles Sanders Peirce Dominicus Gundissalinus Daniel Dennett Epicurians Francis Bacon Friedrich Schelling Galileo Galilei Hans Reichenbach Henri Poincaré Herbert Spencer Hugh of Saint Victor Ian Hacking Immanuel Kant Imre Lakatos Isaac Newton John Dewey John Stuart Mill Jürgen Habermas Karl Pearson Karl Popper Karl Theodor Jaspers Larry Laudan Mario Bunge Michael Polanyi Michael Dummett Otto Neurath Paul H?berlin Paul Feyerabend Pierre Duhem Pierre Gassendi Plato R. B. Braithwaite René Descartes Robert Kilwardby Roger Bacon Rudolf Carnap Stephen Toulmin Stoicism Thomas Hobbes Thomas Kuhn Vienna Circle W.V.O. Quine Wilhelm Windelband Wilhelm Wundt William of Ockham William Whewell more... Concepts Analysis Analytic–synthetic distinction A priori and a posteriori Artificial intelligence Causality Commensurability Construct Creative synthesis Demarcation problem Empirical evidence Explanatory power Explanandum Fact Falsifiability Feminist method Ignoramus et ignorabimus Inductive reasoning Ingenuity Inquiry Intertheoretic reduction Models of scientific inquiry Nature Objectivity Observation Paradigm Problem of induction Scientific law Scientific method Scientific revolution Scientific theory Testability Theory choice Theory?ladenness Underdetermination Metatheory of science Confirmation holism Coherentism Constructive empiricism Constructive realism Constructivist epistemology Contextualism Conventionalism Deductive-nomological model Determinism Empiricism Fallibilism Foundationalism Hypothetico-deductive model Inductionism Infinitism Instrumentalism Model-dependent realism Naturalism Physicalism Positivism Pragmatism Rationalism Received view of theories Reductionism Scientific anti-realism Scientific essentialism Scientific formalism Scientific realism Scientific skepticism Scientism Semantic view of theories Structuralism Uniformitarianism Vitalism Metaphysics Portal Category Task Force Discussion Changes Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Philosophy_of_information&oldid=587337569" Categories: Philosophy by field Philosophy of artificial intelligence Knowledge representation Hidden categories: All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2012 Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ???????? Espa?ol ÝÇÑÓ? Français Italiano ??? Português ?????? / srpski ?????????? Edit links This page was last modified on 23 December 2013 at 06:43. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view