Nick Jardine - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Nick Jardine From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Nicholas Jardine) Jump to: navigation, search Nicholas Jardine FBA (born 4 September 1943) is a British mathematician, philosopher of science and its history, historian of astronomy and natural history, and amateur mycologist. He is Emeritus Professor at the Department of History and Philosophy of Science (HPS) at the University of Cambridge.[1] Contents 1 Career 2 Hobbies 3 Selected publications 4 References Career[edit] Jardine was educated at Monkton Combe School and read natural sciences at King's College, Cambridge. He then worked as a King's College and Royal Society Research Fellow on the automation of classification and information retrieval and its applications to biological taxonomy and diagnosis. In 1975 he moved to Darwin College and to the Department of History and Philosophy of Science. Since then he has developed a question-based pragmatic philosophy of science (inspired by the work of Ian Hacking), as well as studying the history of early-modern astronomy and natural history, and reflecting on the methodology of the history of the sciences. From 1987–2011 he was Senior Editor of Studies in History and Philosophy of Science and from 1998 of Studies in History and Philosophy of Biological and Biomedical Sciences. In June 2010, the Department of HPS held an event celebrating "The Seven Ages of Nick Jardine" prior to his retirement.[2] Since his retirement he continues to work as a PI of two projects: Conflict and Priority in Early-Modern Astronomy; and Diagrams, Figures and the Transformation of Astronomy, 1450–1650. He is Senior Consultant to the Cambridge Scientific Heritage Project. Hobbies[edit] Jardine was a founding member in 1988 of the popular research seminar "The Cabinet of Natural History (Cambridge Group for the History of Natural History and the Environmental Sciences)". This is organised by staff and students of the Department of History and Philosophy of Science, and in term time it holds weekly seminars led by academic speakers. Jardine is a keen amateur mycologist and for over twenty years has led the annual HPS fungus hunt.[3] Selected publications[edit] Jardine, Nicholas and Sibson, Robin (1971) Mathematical Taxonomy, Wiley: London and New York Jardine, Nicholas and van Rijsbergen, C. J. (1974) Automatic Document Classification and Retrieval, Office for Scientific and Technical Information Report No. 5134, distributed by the National Lending Library Jardine, Nicholas (1984) The Birth of History and Philosophy of Science. Kepler's 'A Defence of Tycho against Ursus' with Essays on its Provenance and Significance, Cambridge University Press (2nd rev. ed. 1988) Jardine, Nicholas (1986) The Fortunes of Inquiry, Clarendon Press: Oxford (1986) Cunningham, Andrew and Jardine, Nicholas eds (1990) Romanticism and the Sciences, Cambridge University Press. Jardine, Nicholas (1991) The Scenes of Inquiry: On the Reality of Questions in the Sciences, Oxford University Press (2nd ed. with supplementary essays 2000) Jardine, Nicholas, Secord, J., and Spary, E.C. eds (1996) Cultures of Natural History, Cambridge University Press Frasca-Spada, Marina and Jardine, Nicholas eds (2000) Books and the Sciences in History, Cambridge University Press Jardine, Nicholas, Frasca-Spada, Marina, Raven, Faith and Stearn, W. T. eds (2001) J. E. Raven, Plants and Plant Lore in Ancient Greece, Leopard's Head: Oxford Jardine, Nicholas and Segonds, Alain-Philippe eds (2008) La Guerre des astronomes: La querelle au sujet de l'origine du système géo-héliocentrique à la fin du XVIe siècle, Les Belles Lettres: Paris, 3 vols The standard author abbreviation N.Jardine is used to indicate this individual as the author when citing a botanical name.[4] References[edit] ^ HPS Cambridge: Teaching Officers Nick Jardine ^ HPS Cambridge "The Seven Ages of Nick Jardine" Retrieved 24 August 2010 ^ HPS Cambridge: Fungus Hunt 2009 [1] Retrieved 28 August 2010. ^ "Author Query for 'N.Jardine'". International Plant Names Index.  Persondata Name Jardine, Nicholas Alternative names Short description British mycologist Date of birth 4 September 1943 Place of birth Date of death Place of death Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nick_Jardine&oldid=580008647" Categories: Botanists with author abbreviations Academics of the University of Cambridge Fellows of Darwin College, Cambridge Philosophers of science British mycologists Living people Historians of science 1943 births Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Edit links This page was last modified on 3 November 2013 at 14:34. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view