Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from JASIS) Jump to: navigation, search Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology   Former name(s) American Documentation; Journal of the American Society for Information Science; Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology Abbreviated title (ISO 4) J. Assn. Inf. Sci. Technol. Discipline Information science Language English Edited by Blaise Cronin Publication details Publisher Wiley-Blackwell (United States) Publication history 1950–present Frequency Monthly Impact factor (2010) 2.137 Indexing ISSN 1532-2882 (print) 1532-2890 (web) LCCN 00212816 CODEN JASIEF OCLC number 45266164 Links Journal homepage Online access Online archives The 'Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology' (JASIST) was the former name of what is now the Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology (JASIST), a peer-reviewed academic journal of information science published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the American Society for Information Science and Technology. Occasional issues appear with all article contents focused on a single topic area. There are two series of these special issues. The JASIST Perspectives series began in 1980, while the JASIST Special Topics series began in 1992. The journal publishes original research and rapid communications generally falling in these categories: Theory of Information Science Communications Management, Economics, and Marketing Applied Information Science Social and Legal Aspects of Information The journal also publishes book reviews and announcements of the society. Abstracts are freely available on-line back to 1996. Contents 1 History 2 Multidisciplinarity 3 Abstracting and indexing 4 References 5 External links History[edit] The Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology has been published continuously since 1950, but has undergone multiple changes in title, focus, and frequency during that time. It was first published quarterly as American Documentation, from 1950 to 1969. The new journal was a publication of the American Documentation Institute (ADI), which had formed in 1937 around a group of researchers and practitioners who were interested in the emerging technology of microfilm as a medium for the preservation and dissemination of documents and knowledge. Many of the same people and institutions were involved in a prewar American Library Association journal called The Journal of Documentary Reproduction, which ran from 1938-1943, before being discontinued due to the imperatives of the war.[1] American Documentation was founded as an explicit continuation of and extension upon The Journal of Documentary Reproduction, but with a broader brief to cover documentation as a whole, then defined as "...the creation, transmission, collection, classification and use of 'documents'; documents may be broadly defined as recorded knowledge in any format."[2] In the postwar years, rapid technological and social changes ushered in an "information explosion" which created many new problems and opportunities of special interest to documentation specialists, and in time documentation found itself at the center of the emerging field of Information Science. The ADI's membership and scope increased rapidly, and in 1968 the members voted to change the organization's name to "American Society for Information Science", to reflect the changes in their membership and focus. As their official journal, American Documentation followed suit, and beginning with the first issue of 1970 it changed its name to The Journal of the American Society for Information Science, and began publishing bimonthly.[3] In 1991, the publication frequency increased to 10 issues yearly. By 1996, the journal was publishing monthly, and by 1998 it had reached its current output of 12 issues a year. In 2000, ASIS again voted to change its name, this time to The "American Society for Information Science and Technology", in order to recognize the further changes in membership and interests brought on by the rise of the internet and the mainstreaming of networked computing and information technology. The journal subsequently obtained its current name in January 2001. Multidisciplinarity[edit] Chua & Yang (2008) [4] studied papers published in Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology in the period 1988-1997 and found, among other things: "Top authors have grown in diversity from those being affiliated predominantly with library/information-related departments to include those from information systems management, information technology, business, and the humanities. Amid heterogeneous clusters of collaboration among top authors, strongly connected crossdisciplinary coauthor pairs have become more prevalent. Correspondingly, the distribution of top keywords’ occurrences that leans heavily on core information science has shifted towards other subdisciplines such as information technology and sociobehavioral science." Abstracting and indexing[edit] The journal is abstracted and indexed in: ABI/Inform Database Academic Search FRANCIS Business ASAP Cambridge Scientific Abstracts databases Chemical Abstracts Service Current Index to Journals in Education Compendex CompuMath Citation Index CompuScience Database Computer & Information Systems Abstracts Computer Abstracts International Database Computer Science Index Current Contents/Social & Behavioral Sciences Current Index to Statistics EBSCO databases EMNursing Ergonomics Abstracts InfoTrac Inspec International Aerospace Abstracts & Database Information Science & Technology Abstract Journal Citation Reports Library Literature & Information Science Index Library & Information Science Abstracts Library, Information Science & Technology Abstracts Materials Business File Public Affairs Information Service PASCAL ProQuest Science Citation Index Expanded SCOPUS Social Sciences Citation Index] References[edit] ^ American Documentation 1.1 (1950): 2. ^ American Documentation 1.1 (1950): 3. ^ History of ASIS&T Retrieved 02/10/2011. ^ Chua, A. & Yang, C.C. (2008). The shift towards multi-disciplinarity in information science, Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 59(13), 2156 – 2170. External links[edit] Official website Journal page at society's website Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Journal_of_the_American_Society_for_Information_Science_and_Technology&oldid=569903815" Categories: Publications established in 1950 Information science Library science journals English-language journals John Wiley & Sons academic journals Monthly journals 1950 establishments in the United States Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Nederlands Edit links This page was last modified on 23 August 2013 at 19:50. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view