Association for Computing Machinery - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Association for Computing Machinery From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Association for Computing Machinery Formation 1947 Type 501(c)(3) not-for-profit membership corporation Headquarters New York City Membership 100,000 President Vint Cerf Website www.acm.org The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) is a U.S.-based international learned society for computing. It was founded in 1947 and is the world's largest and most prestigious[1] scientific and educational computing society. It is a not-for-profit professional membership group.[2] Its membership is more than 100,000 as of 2011. Its headquarters are in New York City. The ACM and the IEEE Computer Society are the primary US umbrella organizations for academic and scholarly interests in computing. Unlike the IEEE, the ACM is solely dedicated to computing. Contents 1 Activities 2 Services 3 Digital Library 4 Competition 5 Membership grades 5.1 Fellows 5.2 Distinguished Members 5.3 Senior Members 6 Chapters 6.1 Special Interest Groups 6.2 Professional Chapters 6.3 Student chapters 7 Conferences 8 Awards 9 Leadership 10 Infrastructure 11 ACM–W: Association for Computing Machinery Committee on Women in Computing 11.1 Athena Lectures 12 Publications 13 See also 14 References 15 External links Activities[edit] Two Penn Plaza site of the ACM headquarters in New York City ACM is organized into over 170 local chapters and 35 Special Interest Groups (SIGs), through which it conducts most of its activities. Additionally, there are over 500 college and university chapters. The first student chapter was founded in 1961 at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. Many of the SIGs, like SIGGRAPH, SIGPLAN, SIGCSE and SIGCOMM, sponsor regular conferences which have become famous as the dominant venue for presenting innovations in certain fields. The groups also publish a large number of specialized journals, magazines, and newsletters. ACM also sponsors other computer science related events such as the worldwide ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC), and has sponsored some other events such as the chess match between Garry Kasparov and the IBM Deep Blue computer. Services[edit] ACM Press publishes a prestigious[citation needed] academic journal, Journal of the ACM, and general magazines for computer professionals, Communications of the ACM (also known as Communications or CACM) and Queue. Other publications of the ACM include: ACM XRDS, formerly "Crossroads", was designed in 2010 and is the most popular student computing magazine in the US. ACM Interactions, an interdisciplinary HCI publication focused on the connections between experiences, people and technology, and the third largest ACM publication.[3] ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) ACM Computers in Entertainment (CIE) A number of journals, specific to subfields of computer science, titled ACM Transactions. Some of the more notable transactions include: ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS) IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics (TCBB) ACM Transactions on Computational Logic (TOCL) ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI) ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS) ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (TOMS) ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications (TOMCCAP) IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (TON) ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS) Although Communications no longer publishes primary research, and is not considered a prestigious venue, many of the great debates and results in computing history have been published in its pages. ACM has made almost all of its publications available to paid subscribers online at its Digital Library and also has a Guide to Computing Literature. Individual members additionally have access to Safari Books Online and Books24x7. The ACM also offers insurance, online courses, and other services to its members. Digital Library[edit] The ACM Digital Library contains a comprehensive archive starting in the 1950s of the organization's journals, magazines, newsletters and conference proceedings. Online services include a forum called Ubiquity and Tech News digest. There is an extensive underlying bibliographic database containing key works of all genres from all major publishers of computing literature. This secondary database is a rich discovery service known as The ACM Guide to Computing Literature. ACM adopted a hybrid OA publishing model in 2013. Authors who do not choose to pay the OA fee must grant ACM publishing rights by either a copyright transfer agreement or a publishing license agreement. See.[4] ACM was a "green" publisher before the term was invented. Authors may post documents on their own websites and in their institutional repositories with a link back to the ACM Digital Library's permanently maintained Version of Record. All metadata in the Digital Library is open to the world, including abstracts, linked references and citing works, citation and usage statistics, as well as all functionality and services. Other than the free articles, the full-texts are accessed by subscription. Competition[edit] ACM's primary historical competitor has been the IEEE Computer Society, which is the largest subgroup of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. The IEEE focuses more on hardware and standardization issues than theoretical computer science, but there is considerable overlap with ACM's agenda. They occasionally cooperate on projects like developing computing curricula.[5] Some of the major awards in Computer science are given jointly by ACM and the IEEE–CS.[6] There is also a mounting challenge to the ACM's publication practices coming from the open access movement. Some authors see a centralized peer–review process as less relevant and publish on their home pages or on unreviewed sites like arXiv. Other organizations have sprung up which do their peer review entirely free and online, such as Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research (JAIR), Journal of Machine Learning Research (JMLR) and the Journal of Research and Practice in Information Technology. Membership grades[edit] In addition to student and regular members, ACM has several advanced membership grades to recognize those with multiple years of membership and "demonstrated performance that sets them apart from their peers".[7] Fellows[edit] See also: Category:Fellows of the Association for Computing Machinery The ACM Fellows Program was established by Council of the Association for Computing Machinery in 1993 "to recognize and honor outstanding ACM members for their achievements in computer science and information technology and for their significant contributions to the mission of the ACM." There are presently about 500 Fellows[8] out of about 60,000 professional members. Distinguished Members[edit] In 2006 ACM began recognizing two additional membership grades, one which was called Distinguished Members. Distinguished Members (Distinguished Engineers, Distinguished Scientists, and Distinguished Educators) have at least 15 years of profession experience and 5 years of continuous ACM membership and who "have made a significant impact on the computing field". Note that in 2006 when the Distinguished Members first came out, one of the three levels was called "Distinguished Member" and was changed about two years later to "Distinguished Educator". Those who already had the Distinguished Member title had their titles changed to one of the other three titles. Senior Members[edit] Also in 2006, ACM began recognizing Senior Members. Senior Members have ten or more years of professional experience and 5 years of continuous ACM membership. Chapters[edit] ACM has three kinds of chapters: Special Interest Groups,[9] Professional Chapters, and Student Chapters.[10] Special Interest Groups[edit] SIGACCESS: Accessible Computing SIGACT: Algorithms and Computation Theory SIGAda: Ada Programming Language SIGAPP: Applied Computing SIGARCH: Computer Architecture SIGAI: Artificial Intelligence SIGBED: Embedded Systems SIGCAS: Computers and Society SIGCHI: Computer–Human Interaction SIGCOMM: Data Communication SIGCSE: Computer Science Education SIGDA: Design Automation SIGDOC: Design of Communication SIGecom: Electronic Commerce SIGEVO: Genetic and Evolutionary Computation SIGGRAPH: Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques SIGHPC: High Performance Computing SIGIR: Information Retrieval SIGITE: Information Technology Education SIGKDD: Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining SIGMETRICS: Measurement and Evaluation SIGMICRO: Microarchitecture SIGMIS: Management Information Systems SIGMM: Multimedia SIGMOBILE: Mobility of Systems, Users, Data and Computing SIGMOD: Management of Data SIGOPS: Operating Systems SIGPLAN: Programming Languages SIGSAC: Security, Audit, and Control SIGSAM: Symbolic and Algebraic Manipulation SIGSIM: Simulation and Modeling SIGSOFT: Software Engineering SIGSPATIAL: Spatial Information SIGUCCS: University and College Computing Services SIGWEB: Hypertext, Hypermedia, and Web Professional Chapters[edit] As of 2011, ACM has professional & SIG Chapters in 56 countries.[11] Student chapters[edit] As of 2011, there exist ACM student chapters in 40 different countries.[12] These chapters include: ACM Student Chapter ISI Kolkata (ASCISIK) Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (AUTH ACM)[13] Birla Institute of Technology Mesra (BIT–ACM) Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS–ACM) Bradley University Brock University Baldwin Wallace University California State University, Long Beach (CSULBACM) California State University, Sacramento (CSUSACM) College of Engineering, Guindy, Anna University (AU CEG ACM) Cornell University (ACSU) Dwarkadas J. Sanghvi College of Engineering, Mumbai Far Eastern University – East Asia College, Metro Manila, Philippines (Student Chapter) Florida State University Georgia Institute of Technology (GTACM) Heritage Institute of Technology, Kolkata (ACM@HITK) Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi ACM@IITD Johns Hopkins University (JHUACM) Lehigh University Louisiana State University (ACM@LSU) Mississippi State University National Institute of Technology, Trichy National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NIT Calicut ACM Student Chapter)[14] National Institute of Technology, Surat (NIT Surat ACM Student Chapter)[15] National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences (NUCES–ACM) National University of Singapore (NUS Student Chapter of the ACM) New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Peirce College Pennsylvania State University Portland State University (PDX ACM)[16] Pune Institute of Computer Technology Purdue University PSG College of Technology (PSG Tech ACM) Radford University (ACM Radford) Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT ACM) Stanford University Southern Illinois University Carbondale Texas A&M University–Central Texas Texas Lutheran University University at Buffalo (UB ACM) University of Alabama in Huntsville University of Arizona (UOFA ACM) University of California, Irvine (ACM UCI) University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA ACM) University of California, San Diego (CSES) University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB ACM) University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC ACM) University of Central Florida (ACM at UCF) University of Cincinnati (ACM@UC) University of Illinois, Chicago (UIC ACM) University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign (ACM@UIUC) University of Iowa University of Kurdistan (Iran) University of Massachusetts Amherst (UMass ACM) University of Minnesota Twin Cities (UofM) University of Missouri (Mizzou ACM) University of the Philippines (UPACM) University of San Diego (USD ACM) University of South Alabama (ACMUSA) University of Tehran (UTACM) University of Texas, Austin (UTACM) University of Texas-Pan American (ACMUTPA)[17] Universit?t Ulm Usha Mittal Institute of Technology Vidyalankar Institute of Technology, Mumbai University of Virginia (ACM@UVA) Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech chapter of the ACM)[18] Washington State University (WSU ACM) Washington University in St. Louis (WU ACM) Western Washington University (WWU ACM) Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPIACM) Yeshwantrao Chavan College of Engineering (YCCE) Conferences[edit] The ACM sponsors numerous conferences listed below. Most of the special interest groups also have an annual conference. ACM conferences are often very popular publishing venues and are therefore very competitive. For example, the 2007 SIGGRAPH conference attracted about 30000 visitors, and CIKM only accepted 15% of the long papers that were submitted in 2005. ASPLOS: International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems CHI: Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems SIGCSE: SIGCSE Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education CIKM: Conference on Information and Knowledge Management[19] DAC: Design Automation Conference DEBS: Distributed Event Based Systems FCRC: Federated Computing Research Conference GECCO: Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference[20] SC: Supercomputing Conference SIGGRAPH: International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques Hypertext: Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia[21] JCDL: Joint Conference on Digital Libraries[22] OOPSLA: Conference on Object–Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages, and Applications WWW: World Wide Web Conference The ACM is a co–presenter and founding partner of the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing (GHC) with the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology.[23] There are some conferences hosted by ACM student branches; this includes Reflections Projections, which is hosted by UIUC ACM.[citation needed] Awards[edit] The ACM presents or co–presents a number of awards for outstanding technical and professional achievements and contributions in computer science and information technology.[24] A. M. Turing Award ACM – Infosys Foundation Award in the Computing Sciences Distinguished Service Award Doctoral Dissertation Award Eckert–Mauchly Award Gordon Bell Prize Grace Murray Hopper Award Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award ACM – IEEE CS Ken Kennedy Award ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award Outstanding Contribution to ACM Award Allen Newell Award ACM Presidential Award SIAM/ACM Prize in Computational Science and Engineering Software System Award ACM Programming Systems and Languages Paper Award ACM–W Athena Lecturer Award Leadership[edit] The President of the ACM for 2012–2014[25] is Vint Cerf, an American computer scientist, who is recognized as one of "the fathers of the Internet". He is the successor of Alain Chesnais (2010–2012),[26] a French citizen living in Toronto where he runs his company named Visual Transitions and Wendy Hall of the University of Southampton. ACM is led by a Council consisting of the President, Vice–President, Treasurer, Past President, SIG Governing Board Chair, Publications Board Chair, three representatives of the SIG Governing Board, and seven Members–At–Large. This institution is often referred to simply as "Council" in Communications of the ACM. Infrastructure[edit] ACM has five “Boards” that make up various committees and subgroups, to help Headquarters staff maintain quality services and products. These boards are as follows: Publications Board SIG Governing Board Education Board Membership Services Board Professions Board ACM–W: Association for Computing Machinery Committee on Women in Computing[edit] ACM–W,[27] the ACM's committee on women in computing, supports, celebrates, and advocates for women in computing. Dr. Anita Borg was a great supporter of ACM–W. ACM–W's main programs are regional women in computing conferences, ACM-W chapters, and scholarships for women CS students to attend research conferences. In India and Europe these activities are overseen by ACM-W India and ACM-W Europe respectively. Athena Lectures[edit] The ACM-W holds annual Athena Lectures, to honor outstanding women researchers who have made fundamental contributions to computer science, starting from 2006. Speakers are nominated by SIG officers.[28] 2006-2007: Professor Deborah Estrin of UCLA 2007-2008: Professor Karen Sp?rck Jones of Cambridge University 2008-2009: Professor Shafi Goldwasser of MIT and the Weitzmann Institute of Science 2009-2010: Susan Eggers of the University of Washington 2010-2011: Mary Jane Irwin of the Pennsylvania State University 2011-2012: Judith S. Olson of the University of California, Irvine 2012-2013: Nancy Lynch of MIT 2013-2014: Katherine Yelick of LBNL[29] Publications[edit] In 1997, ACM Press published Wizards and Their Wonders: Portraits in Computing (ISBN 0897919602), written by Christopher Morgan, with new photographs by Louis Fabian Bachrach. The book is a collection of historic and current portrait photographs of figures from the computer industry. See also[edit] Computer Science portal Computing portal ACM Classification Scheme Association of Information Technology Professionals Computer science Computing Grace Murray Hopper Award, awarded by the ACM Ken Kennedy Award, awarded by ACM and the IEEE Computer Society Timeline of computing 2400 BC–1949 Turing Award Presidents of the Association for Computing Machinery Franz Alt, former president Edmund Berkeley, co–founder Bernard Galler, former president References[edit] ^ "Indiana University Media Relations". indiana.edu. Retrieved 2012–10–02.  Check date values in: |accessdate= (help) ^ "ACM 501(c)3 Status as a group". irs.gov. Retrieved 2012–10–01.  Check date values in: |accessdate= (help) ^ Wakkary, R.; Stolterman, E. (2011). "WELCOME: Our first interactions". Interactions 18: 5. doi:10.1145/1897239.1897240.  edit ^ "ACM Author Rights". Acm.org.  ^ Joint Task Force of Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), Association for Information Systems (AIS) and IEEE Computer Society (IEEE–CS). "Computing Curricula 2005: The Overview Report".  ^ See, e.g., Ken Kennedy Award ^ "ACM Senior Members–An Overview". Acm.org.  ^ "List of ACM Fellows". Fellows.acm.org. Retrieved 2012–06–07.  Check date values in: |accessdate= (help) ^ "ACM Special Interest Groups". Archived from the original on July 27, 2010 <!––DASHBot––>. Retrieved August 7, 2010.  Check date values in: |archivedate= (help) ^ "ACM Chapters". Retrieved August 7, 2010.  ^ "Worldwide Professional Chapters". Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). Retrieved 2012-12-27.  ^ "Chapters Listing by Geographic Region — Association for Computing Machinery". Campus.acm.org. Retrieved 2013-10-02.  ^ "acm.web.auth.gr". acm.web.auth.gr. 2012-11-26. Retrieved 2013-10-02.  ^ "acm.nitc.ac.in". acm.nitc.ac.in. Retrieved 2013-10-02.  ^ "nitsurat.acm.org". nitsurat.acm.org. Retrieved 2013-10-02.  ^ "acm.pdx.edu". acm.pdx.edu. Retrieved 2013-10-02.  ^ "acmutpa.org". acmutpa.org. Retrieved 2013-10-02.  ^ "Virginia Tech chapter of the ACM".  ^ "Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM)". Cikmconference.org.  ^ "GECCO – 2009". Sigevo.org.  ^ "Hypertext 2009". Ht2009.org.  ^ "Joint Conference on Digital Library (JCDL)–Home". JCDL.  ^ "Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing, Largest Gathering of Women in Computing, Attracts Researchers, Industry". Retrieved June 27, 2011.  ^ "ACM Awards". Retrieved April 26, 2012.  ^ "ACM Elects Vint Cerf as President". Acm.org. May 25, 2012.  ^ "ACM Elects New Leaders Committed to Expanding International Initiatives". Acm.org. June 9, 2010.  ^ women.acm.org ^ "ACM-W Athena Lecturers Award Winners". ACM. Retrieved 2013-12-01.  ^ "Berkeley Lab’s Yelick Named “Athena Lecturer” for Contributions to Parallel Programming Languages that Improve Programmer Productivity" (Press release). ACM. 2013-03-21. Retrieved 2013-12-01.  External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Association for Computing Machinery. Official website ACM portal for publications ACM Digital Library Association for Computing Machinery Records, 1947-2009, Charles Babbage Institute, University of Minnesota. Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Association_for_Computing_Machinery&oldid=591591645" Categories: Association for Computing Machinery Professional associations based in the United States Computer science organizations Computer-related organizations International nongovernmental organizations Learned societies Organizations established in 1947 Computer science-related professional associations 1947 establishments in the United States Hidden categories: CS1 errors: dates Use mdy dates from June 2012 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2012 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2012 Commons category template with no category set Commons category without a link on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ÇáÚÑÈíÉ Az?rbaycanca ????? Dansk Deutsch Espa?ol ÝÇÑÓ? Français ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Nederlands ??? Piemontèis Polski Português Român? ??????? Sloven?ina Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 20 January 2014 at 18:07. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view