Science, technology and society - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Science, technology and society From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2011) Information science General aspects Information access · Information architecture Information management Information retrieval Information seeking · Information society Knowledge organization · Ontology Philosophy of information Science, technology and society Related fields and sub-fields Bibliometrics · Categorization Censorship · Classification Computer data storage · Cultural studies Data modeling · Informatics Information technology Intellectual freedom Intellectual property · Memory Library and information science Preservation · Privacy Information science portal v t e Sociology Outline Theory History Positivism Antipositivism Functionalism Conflict theories Middle-range Mathematical Critical theory Socialization Structuralism Interactionism Research methods Quantitative Qualitative Historical Computational Ethnographic Network-analytic Topics Subfields Change Cities Class Crime Culture Development Deviance Demography Education Economy Environment Family Gender Health Industry Internet Knowledge Law Literature Medicine Mobility Movements Networks Organizations Politics Race and ethnicity Religion Rural Science Social psychology Stratification Technology Browse Portal People Journals Project v t e Science, technology and society (STS), also referred to as science and technology studies, is the study of how social, political, and cultural values affect scientific research and technological innovation, and how these, in turn, affect society, politics and culture. STS scholars are interested in a variety of problems including the relationships between scientific and technological innovations and society, and the directions and risks of science and technology. More than two dozen universities worldwide offer bachelor's degrees in STS. About half of these also offer doctoral or master's degrees. An STS model has been developed by scholars to consider the internal and external effects. The field of STS is related to history and philosophy of science although with a much broader emphasis on social aspects of science and technology. Contents 1 History 1.1 Early developments 1.2 The "turn to technology" (and beyond) 2 Professional associations 3 Journals 4 See also 5 References 5.1 Notes 5.2 Further reading 6 External links History[edit] STS is a new and expanding subject; for example, in 2011, globally the existence of 111 STS programs has been counted.[1] Like most interdisciplinary programs, it emerged from the confluence of a variety of disciplines and disciplinary subfields, all of which had developed an interest—typically, during the 1960s or 1970s—in viewing science and technology as socially embedded enterprises. Early developments[edit] The key disciplinary components of STS took shape independently, beginning in the 1960s, and developed in isolation from each other well into the 1980s, although Ludwig Fleck's monograph (1935) Genesis and Development of a Scientific Fact anticipated many of STS's key themes: Science studies, a branch of the sociology of scientific knowledge that places scientific controversies in their social context. History of technology, that examines technology in its social and historical context. Starting in the 1960s, some historians questioned technological determinism, a doctrine that can induce public passivity to technologic and scientific 'natural' development. At the same time, some historians began to develop similarly contextual approaches to the history of medicine. History and philosophy of science (1960s). After the publication of Thomas Kuhn's well-known The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962), which attributed changes in scientific theories to changes in underlying intellectual paradigms, programs were founded at the University of California, Berkeley and elsewhere that brought historians of science and philosophers together in unified programs. Science, technology, and society In the mid- to late-1960s, student and faculty social movements in the U.S., UK, and European universities helped to launch a range of new interdisciplinary fields (such as women's studies) that were seen to address relevant topics that the traditional curriculum ignored. One such development was the rise of "science, technology, and society" programs, which are also—confusingly—known by the STS acronym. Drawn from a variety of disciplines, including anthropology, history, political science, and sociology, scholars in these programs created undergraduate curricula devoted to exploring the issues raised by science and technology. Unlike scholars in science studies, history of technology, or the history and philosophy of science, they were and are more likely to see themselves as activists working for change rather than dispassionate, "ivory tower" researchers[citation needed]. As an example of the activist impulse, feminist scholars in this and other emerging STS areas addressed themselves to the exclusion of women from science and engineering. Science, engineering, and public policy studies emerged in the 1970s from the same concerns that motivated the founders of the science, technology, and society movement: A sense that science and technology were developing in ways that were increasingly at odds with the public's best interests.[according to whom?] The science, technology, and society movement tried to humanize those who would make tomorrow's science and technology, but this discipline took a different approach: It would train students with the professional skills needed to become players in science and technology policy. Some programs came to emphasize quantitative methodologies, and most of these were eventually absorbed into systems engineering. Others emphasized sociological and qualitative approaches, and found that their closest kin could be found among scholars in science, technology, and society departments.[citation needed] During the 1970s and 1980s, leading universities in the US, UK, and Europe began drawing these various components together in new, interdisciplinary programs. For example, in the 1970s, Cornell University developed a new program that united science studies and policy-oriented scholars with historians and philosophers of science and technology. Each of these programs developed unique identities due to variation in the components that were drawn together, as well as their location within the various universities. For example, the University of Virginia's STS program united scholars drawn from a variety of fields (with particular strength in the history of technology); however, the program's teaching responsibilities—it is located within an engineering school and teaches ethics to undergraduate engineering students—means that all of its faculty share a strong interest in engineering ethics.[citation needed] The "turn to technology" (and beyond)[edit] See also: Social construction of technology A decisive moment in the development of STS was the mid-1980s addition of technology studies to the range of interests reflected in science . During that decade, two works appeared en seriatim that signaled what Steve Woolgar was to call the "turn to technology": Social Shaping of Technology (MacKenzie and Wajcman, 1985) and The Social Construction of Technological Systems (Bijker, Hughes and Pinch, 1987). MacKenzie and Wajcman primed the pump by publishing a collection of articles attesting to the influence of society on technological design. In a seminal article, Trevor Pinch and Wiebe Bijker attached all the legitimacy of the Sociology of Scientific Knowledge to this development by showing how the sociology of technology could proceed along precisely the theoretical and methodological lines established by the sociology of scientific knowledge. This was the intellectual foundation of the field they called the social construction of technology. The "turn to technology" helped to cement an already growing awareness of underlying unity among the various emerging STS programs. More recently, there has been an associated turn to ecology, nature, and materiality in general, whereby the socio-technical and natural/material co-produce each other. This is especially evident in work in STS analyses of biomedicine (such as Carl May, Annemarie Mol, Nelly Oudshoorn, and Andrew Webster) and ecological interventions (such as Bruno Latour, Sheila Jasanoff, Matthias Gross, and Jens Lachmund). Professional associations[edit] The subject has several professional associations. Founded in 1975, the Society for Social Studies of Science, initially provided scholarly communication facilities—including a journal (Science, Technology, and Human Values) and annual meetings—that were mainly attended by science studies scholars, but the society has since grown into the most important professional association of science and technology studies scholars worldwide. The Society for Social Studies of Science members also include government and industry officials concerned with research and development as well as science and technology policy; scientists and engineers who wish to better understand the social embeddedness of their professional practice; and citizens concerned about the impact of science and technology in their lives. Proposals have been made to add the word "technology" to the association's name, thereby reflecting its stature as the leading STS professional society, but there seems to be widespread sentiment[according to whom?] that the name is long enough as it is. In Europe, the European Association for the Study of Science and Technology (EASST)[2] was founded in 1981 to stimulate communication, exchange and collaboration in the field of studies of science and technology. Similarly, the European Inter-University Association on Society, Science and Technology (ESST) researches and studies science and technology in society, in both historical and contemporary perspectives. In Asia several STS associations exist. In Japan, the Japanese Society for Science and Technology Studies (JSSTS)[3] was founded in 2001. The Asia Pacific Science Technology & Society Network (APSTSN)[4] primarily has members from Australasia, Southeast and East Asia and Oceania. Founded in 1958, the Society for the History of Technology initially attracted members from the history profession who had interests in the contextual history of technology. After the "turn to technology" in the mid-1980s, the society's well-regarded journal (Technology and Culture) and its annual meetings began to attract considerable interest from non-historians with technology studies interests. Less identified with STS, but also of importance to many STS scholars in the US, are the History of Science Society, the Philosophy of Science Association, and the American Association for the History of Medicine. In addition, there are significant STS-oriented special interest groups within major disciplinary associations, including the American Anthropological Association, the American Political Science Association, and the American Sociological Association. Journals[edit] Notable peer-reviewed journals in STS include: Social Studies of Science, Science, Technology and Human Values, Science & Technology Studies, Technology in Society, Research Policy, Minerva: A Journal of Science, Learning and Policy, Science, Technology and Society, Science as Culture, Technology and Culture, and Science and Public Policy. Student journals in STS include: Intersect: the Journal of Science, Technology, and Society at Stanford, DEMESCI: International Journal of Deliberative Mechanisms in Science, and Synthesis: An Undergraduate Journal of the History of Science at Harvard. See also[edit] Technology portal Scientometrics Social construction of technology Sociology of scientific knowledge Actor–network theory Normalization process theory Science and technology Mode 2 Innovation system Technological innovation system Science of team science Science and technology in Israel Cyborg anthropology References[edit] Notes[edit] ^ The STS Wiki. ^ European Association for the Study of Science and Technology. ^ Japanese Society for Science and Technology Studies ^ Asia Pacific Science Technology & Society Network Further reading[edit] Bauchspies, Wenda, Jennifer Croissant, and Sal Restivo (2005). Science, Technology, and Society: A Sociological Approach (Wiley-Blackwell, 2005). Bijker, Wiebe, Hughes, Thomas & Pinch, Trevor, eds. (1987). The Social Construction of Technological Systems: New Directions in the Sociology and History of Technology Cambridge MA/London: MIT Press. Bijker, Wiebe and John Law, eds. (1994). Shaping Technology / Building Society: Studies in Sociotechnical Change. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press (Inside Technology Series). Bloor, David (1976). Knowledge and Social Imagery (Routledge, 1976; 2nd edition Chicago University Press, 1991) Cowan, Ruth Schwartz (1983). More Work For Mother: The Ironies of Household Technology From the Open Hearth to the Microwave. New York, NY: Basic Books.  Ewen, Stuart (2008). Typecasting: On the Arts and Sciences of Human Inequality. New York, NY: Seven Stories Press.  Foucault, Michel (1977). Discipline & Punish. New York, NY: Vintage Books.  Fuller, Steve (1993). Philosophy, Rhetoric, and the End of Knowledge: The Coming of Science and Technology Studies. Madison, WI: University of Wisconsin Press.  (2nd edition, with James H. Collier, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 2004) Gross, Matthias (2010). Ignorance and Surprise: Science, Society, Ecological Design. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press (Inside Technology Series). Hughes, Thomas (1989). American Genesis: A Century of Invention and Technological Enthusiasm, 1870 – 1970. New York, NY: Viking.  Jasanoff, Sheila, Markle, Gerald, Petersen, James and Pinch, Trevor, eds. (1994). Handbook of Science and Technology Studies. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. Jasanoff, Sheila (2005). Designs on Nature: Science and Democracy in Europe and the United States. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.  Kuhn, Thomas (1962). The structure of scientific revolutions. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.  Lachmund, Jens (2013). Greening Berlin: The Co-production of Science, Politics, and Urban Nature. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press (Inside Technology Series). Latour, Bruno (1987). Science in action: How to follow scientists and engineers through society. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.  Latour, Bruno (2004). Politics of Nature: How to Bring the Sciences Into Democracy. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.  Latour, Bruno and Steve Woolgar (1986(1979)). Laboratory Life: The Construction of Scientific Facts. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.  Check date values in: |date= (help) MacKenzie, Donald & Wajcman, Judy (eds.) (1999). The Social Shaping of Technology: How the Refrigerator Got Its Hum, Milton Keynes, Open University Press. MacKenzie, Donald (1996). Knowing Machines: Essays on Technical Change. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press (Inside Technology Series). Mol, Annemarie (2002). The Body Multiple: Ontology in Medical Practice, Duke University Press Books. Restivo, Sal (editor-in-chief), Science, Technology, and Society: An Encyclopedia. New York: Oxford, 2005. Restivo, Sal (1992), Mathematics in Society and History. New York: Springer. Rip, Arie, Thomas J. Misa and Johan Schot, eds. (1995). Managing Technology in Society: The approach of Constructive Technology Assessment London/NY: Pinter. Rosenberg, Nathan (1994) Exploring the Black Box: Technology, Economics and History, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Shamir, Ronen (2013). Current Flow: The Electrification of Palestine. Stanford: Stanford University Press. Volti, Rudi (2001). Society and technological change. New York: Worth.  Werskey, Gary. The Marxist Critique of Capitalist Science: A History in Three Movements?. The Human Nature Review. 2011-05-21. URL:http://human-nature.com/science-as-culture/werskey.html. Accessed: 2011-05-21. (Archived by WebCite® at http://www.webcitation.org/5yr1hbYcl) Williams, Robin and Edge, David The Social Shaping of Technology, Research Policy, Vol. 25, 1996, pp. 856–899 (html version). External links[edit] STSWiki (devoted to building resources, such as a worldwide list of STS programs and scholars) STS-Wiki of (Dutch) STS PhD research school (this page is partly a private wiki) Argentinean Network for Science and Technology Studies Instituto de Estudios sobre la Ciencia y la Tecnolog?a - Universidad Nacional de Quilmes Journals Social Studies of Science Science, Technology and Human Values Science & Technology Studies Technology in Society Research Policy Minerva: A Journal of Science, Learning and Policy Science Technology and Society Science as Culture Technology and Culture Science and Public Policy Student journals Intersect: the Journal of Science, Technology, and Society, Stanford University DEMESCI: International Journal of Deliberative Mechanisms in Science v t e Science and technology studies Economics Economics of science Economics of scientific knowledge History History and philosophy of science History of science and technology History of technology Philosophy Antipositivism Empiricism Fuzzy logic Philosophy of science Philosophy of social science Philosophy of technology Positivism Postpositivism Social constructivism Social epistemology Policy Digital divide Evidence-based policy Factor 10 Science policy history of science of Politicization of science Regulation of science Socio-scientific issues Technology assessment Technology policy Transition management Science studies Antiscience Bibliometrics Boundary-work Demarcation problem Double hermeneutic Mapping controversies Paradigm shift Pseudoscience Science citizen communication education rhetoric wars Scientific method consensus controversy Scientometrics Team science Traditional knowledge ecological Unity of science Women in science STEM Sociology Actor–network theory Social construction of technology shaping of technology Sociology of knowledge scientific Sociology of the history of science Strong programme Technology Coproduction Cyborg anthropology Dematerialization Early adopter Innovation diffusion linear model system user Leapfrogging Normalization process theory Reverse salient Sociotechnical system Technical change Technoscience feminist Technological change convergence determinism revolution transitions Technology and society critique of dynamics science and theories of transfer Women in engineering Associations Bulletin of Science, Technology & Society ESST History of Science Society Philosophy of Science Association Social Studies of Science Society for Social Studies of Science Rachel Carson Prize Society for the History of Technology Technology and Culture Portals: Science History of science Technology Sociology Category scholars v t e Technology Outline of technology Outline of applied science Fields Agriculture Agricultural engineering Aquaculture Fisheries science Food chemistry Food engineering Food microbiology Food technology GURT ICT in agriculture Nutrition Biomedical Bioinformatics Biological engineering Biomechatronics Biomedical engineering Biotechnology Cheminformatics Genetic engineering Healthcare science Medical research Medical technology Nanomedicine Neuroscience Neurotechnology Pharmacology Reproductive technology Tissue engineering Buildings and Construction Acoustical engineering Architectural engineering Building services engineering Civil engineering Construction engineering Domestic technology Facade engineering Fire protection engineering Safety engineering Sanitary engineering Structural engineering Educational Educational software Digital technologies in education ICT in education Impact Multimedia learning Virtual campus Virtual education Energy Nuclear engineering Nuclear technology Petroleum engineering Soft energy technology Environmental Clean technology Clean coal technology Ecological design Ecological engineering Ecotechnology Environmental engineering Environmental engineering science Green building Green nanotechnology Landscape engineering Renewable energy Sustainable design Sustainable engineering Industrial Automation Business informatics Engineering management Enterprise engineering Financial engineering Industrial biotechnology Industrial engineering Industrial gas Metallurgy Mining engineering Productivity improving technologies Research and development IT and communications Artificial intelligence Broadcast engineering Computer engineering Computer science Information technology Music technology Ontology engineering RF engineering Software engineering Telecommunications engineering Visual technology Web engineering Military Army engineering maintenance Electronic warfare Military communications Military engineering Stealth technology Transport Aerospace engineering Automotive engineering Naval architecture Space technology Traffic engineering Transport engineering Other applied sciences Cryogenics Electro-optics Electronics Engineering geology Engineering physics Hydraulics Materials science Microfabrication Nanoengineering Other engineering fields Audio Biochemical Ceramic Chemical Polymer Control Electrical Electronic Entertainment Geotechnical Hydraulic Mechanical Mechatronics Optical Protein Quantum Robotics Animatronics Systems Components Infrastructure Invention Timeline Knowledge Machine Skill Craft Tool Gadget Scale Femtotechnology Picotechnology Nanotechnology Microtechnology Macro-engineering Megascale engineering History Prehistoric technology Neolithic Revolution Ancient technology Medieval technology Renaissance technology Industrial Revolution Second Jet Age Digital Revolution Information Age Theories and concepts Appropriate technology Critique of technology Diffusion of innovations Disruptive innovation Dual-use technology Ephemeralization Ethics of technology High tech Hype cycle Inevitability thesis Low-technology Mature technology Philosophy of technology Strategy of Technology Technicism Techno-progressivism Technocapitalism Technocentrism Technocracy Technocriticism Technoetic Technoethics Technological change Technological convergence Technological determinism Technological escalation Technological evolution Technological fix Technological innovation system Technological momentum Technological nationalism Technological rationality Technological revival Technological singularity Technological somnambulism Technological utopianism Technology lifecycle Technology acceptance model Technology adoption lifecycle Technomancy Technorealism Transhumanism Other Emerging technologies List Fictional technology Technopaganism High-technology business districts Kardashev scale List of technologies Science, technology and society Technology dynamics Science and technology by country Technology alignment Technology assessment Technology brokering Technology companies Technology demonstration Technology education Technical universities and colleges Technology evangelist Technology fusion Technology governance Technology integration Technology journalism Technology management Technology policy Technology shock Technology strategy Technology and society Technology transfer Technoself Technosignature Weapon List Book Category Commons Portal Wikiquotes Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Science,_technology_and_society&oldid=587474827" Categories: Science studies Science and technology studies Technology Technology assessment Social epistemology Sociology of science Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from October 2011 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2007 All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from November 2013 Articles with unsourced statements from September 2010 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2011 CS1 errors: dates Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Espa?ol Français Galego Italiano ??? Português Tagalog Edit links This page was last modified on 24 December 2013 at 05:41. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view