Bibliometrics - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Bibliometrics From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search It has been suggested that this article be merged with Scientometrics to Bibliometrics and Scientometrics. (Discuss) Proposed since December 2013. Information science General aspects Information access · Information architecture Information management Information retrieval Information seeking · Information society Knowledge organization · Ontology Philosophy of information Science, technology and society Related fields and sub-fields Bibliometrics · Categorization Censorship · Classification Computer data storage · Cultural studies Data modeling · Informatics Information technology Intellectual freedom Intellectual property · Memory Library and information science Preservation · Privacy Information science portal v t e Bibliometrics is a set of methods to quantitatively analyze academic literature.[1] Citation analysis and content analysis are commonly used bibliometric methods. While bibliometric methods are most often used in the field of library and information science, bibliometrics have wide applications in other areas. Many research fields use bibliometric methods to explore the impact of their field,[2] the impact of a set of researchers, or the impact of a particular paper. Contents 1 Usage 2 History 3 See also 4 References Usage[edit] Historically bibliometric methods have been used to trace relationships amongst academic journal citations. Citation analysis, which involves examining an item's referring documents, is used in searching for materials and analyzing their merit.[3] Citation indices, such as Institute for Scientific Information's Web of Science, allow users to search forward in time from a known article to more recent publications which cite the known item. Data from citation indexes can be analyzed to determine the popularity and impact of specific articles, authors, and publications. Using citation analysis to gauge the importance of one's work, for example, is a significant part of the tenure review process.[4][5] Information scientists also use citation analysis to quantitatively assess the core journal titles and watershed publications in particular disciplines; interrelationships between authors from different institutions and schools of thought; and related data about the sociology of academia. Some more pragmatic applications of this information includes the planning of retrospective bibliographies, "giving some indication both of the age of material used in a discipline, and of the extent to which more recent publications supersede the older ones;" indicating through high frequency of citation which documents should be archived; comparing the coverage of secondary services which can help publishers gauge their achievements and competition, and can aid librarians in evaluating "the effectiveness of their stock".[6] There are also some limitations to the value of citation data. They are often incomplete or biased; data has been largely collected by hand (which is expensive), though citation indexes can also be used; incorrect citing of sources occurs continually; thus, further investigation is required to truly understand the rationale behind citing to allow it to be confidently applied.[7] Bibliometrics are now used in quantitative research assessment exercises of academic output which is starting to threaten practice based research.[8] The UK government is considering using bibliometrics as a possible auxiliary tool in its Research Excellence Framework, a process which will assess the quality of the research output of UK universities and on the basis of the assessment results, allocate research funding.[9] Other bibliometrics applications include: creating thesauri; measuring term frequencies; as metrics in scientometric analysis, exploring grammatical and syntactical structures of texts; measuring usage by readers. History[edit] The term bibliometrics was coined by Alan Pritchard in a paper published in 1969, titled Statistical Bibliography or Bibliometrics?[10] He defined the term as "the application of mathematics and statistical methods to books and other media of communication". Although citation analysis is not new (the Science Citation Index began publication in 1961), before it could be calculated by computers it was done manually and so was time-consuming. Automated algorithms are making it much more useful, versatile, and widespread. This led to the creation of the new field of computational bibliometrics. The first such algorithm for automated citation extraction and indexing was by CiteSeer. Google's PageRank is based on the principle of citation analysis. Patent citation maps are also based upon citation analysis (in this case, the citation of one patent by another). See also[edit] Citation impact Citation index Altmetrics H-index or Hirsch number Impact factor Informetrics Scientometrics Webometrics References[edit] ^ Bellis, De Nicola (2009). Bibliometrics and citation analysis: from the Science citation index to cybermetrics. Scarecrow Press. p. 417. ISBN 0-8108-6713-3.  ^ Bibliometrics at Royal Holloway led by Dr Alan Pilkington, Ver 9.08. Accessed 24 April 2009. ^ Schaer, Philipp (2013). "Applied Informetrics for Digital Libraries: An Overview of Foundations, Problems and Current Approaches". Historical Social Research 38 (3): 267–281.  ^ Steve Kolowich. Tenure-o-meter in Inside Higher Ed, December 15, 2009. This article refers to the bibliometrics tool now known as Scholarometer ^ Hoang, D.; Kaur, J. and Menczer, F. (2010), "Crowdsourcing Scholarly Data", Proceedings of the WebSci10: Extending the Frontiers of Society On-Line, April 26-27th, 2010, Raleigh, NC: US  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Nicholas, David and Maureen Ritchie. Literature and Bibliometrics London: Clive Bingley: 1978. (12-28). ^ Nicholas, David and Maureen Ritchie. Literature and Bibliometrics London: Clive Bingley: 1978. (28-29). ^ Henderson, M., Shurville, S. and Fernstrom, K. (2009). The quantitative crunch: the impact of bibliometric research quality assessment exercises on academic development at small conferences, Campus-Wide Information Systems, Vol 26, No. 3, pp. 149–167 ^ Higher Education Funding Council for England, http://www.hefce.ac.uk/Research/ref/. Accessed 20 July 2009. ^ Pritchard, Alan, 'Statistical Bibliography or Bibliometrics?', Journal of Documentation, 25(4) Dec 1969, 348-349. http://independent.academia.edu/AlanPritchard/Papers/602982/Statistical_bibliography_or_bibliometrics Accessed 22 September 2012 v t e Science and technology studies Economics Economics of science Economics of scientific knowledge History History and philosophy of science History of science and technology History of technology Philosophy Antipositivism Empiricism Fuzzy logic Philosophy of science Philosophy of social science Philosophy of technology Positivism Postpositivism Social constructivism Social epistemology Policy Digital divide Evidence-based policy Factor 10 Science policy history of science of Politicization of science Regulation of science Socio-scientific issues Technology assessment Technology policy Transition management Science studies Antiscience Bibliometrics Boundary-work Demarcation problem Double hermeneutic Mapping controversies Paradigm shift Pseudoscience Science citizen communication education rhetoric wars Scientific method consensus controversy Scientometrics Team science Traditional knowledge ecological Unity of science Women in science STEM Sociology Actor–network theory Social construction of technology shaping of technology Sociology of knowledge scientific Sociology of the history of science Strong programme Technology Coproduction Cyborg anthropology Dematerialization Early adopter Innovation diffusion linear model system user Leapfrogging Normalization process theory Reverse salient Sociotechnical system Technical change Technoscience feminist Technological change convergence determinism revolution transitions Technology and society critique of dynamics science and theories of transfer Women in engineering Associations Bulletin of Science, Technology & Society ESST History of Science Society Philosophy of Science Association Social Studies of Science Society for Social Studies of Science Rachel Carson Prize Society for the History of Technology Technology and Culture Portals: Science History of science Technology Sociology Category scholars Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bibliometrics&oldid=584890587" Categories: Bibliometrics Library science Methods in sociology Hidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters Articles to be merged from December 2013 All articles to be merged Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?e?tina Dansk Deutsch Espa?ol ÝÇÑÓ? Français Hrvatski Italiano ????? ??? Norsk bokm?l Polski Português ??????? Sloven?ina Sloven??ina Suomi Svenska ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 6 December 2013 at 19:34. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view