Personal information management - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Personal information management From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Personal information management (PIM) refers to the practice and the study of the activities people perform in order to acquire, organize, maintain, retrieve and use personal information items such as documents (paper-based and digital), web pages and email messages for everyday use to complete tasks (work-related or not) and fulfill a person’s various roles (as parent, employee, friend, member of community, etc.). One ideal of PIM is that people should always have the right information in the right place, in the right form, and of sufficient completeness and quality to meet their current need. Technologies and tools such as personal information managers help people spend less time with time-consuming and error-prone activities of PIM (such as looking for information). They then have more time to make creative, intelligent use of the information at hand in order to get things done, or to simply enjoy the information itself. Contents 1 History and background 2 Tools 3 Study 4 Related activities and areas 4.1 Cognitive psychology and cognitive science 4.2 Human-computer and human-information interaction 4.3 Management of data, information, knowledge, time and tasks 4.4 Relation to time management and productivity 5 See also 6 References 7 Books and articles on PIM 8 Other resources History and background[edit] Knowledge acquisition/elicitation has been an important area of study in its own right receiving special prominence in the 1980s as a way to define rules to drive expert systems. A seminal paper in personal information management research is "Finding and Reminding" by Barreau and Nardi in 1995.[1] It shows how ethographic field studies can be used to derive testable theories for improving personal information management practices and tools. Many publications by others followed, until a workshop series was initiated with the first NSF-sponsored workshop on PIM held in Seattle, Washington, on January 27–29, 2005. The group gathered at this workshop started defining the field in a published report.[2] This report formed the basis of the book Personal Information Management and follow-up workshops. Research in the area of PIM also relates to work done under the term personal knowledge management. Whereas the focus there is on philosophy and integration with the theories created within knowledge management – a holistic approach – the focus of PIM research is on collecting statistically relevant data to support the core hypothesis of PIM (see for example the work of Steve Whittaker), and on creating and validating tools for PIM (see works by William Jones or David Karger). Tools[edit] There are a number of tools available for managing personal information, but these tools can become a part of the problem leading to “information fragmentation”. Different devices and applications often come with their separate ways of storing and organizing information. NOTE: Many people confuse PIM tools with the study and practice of personal information management itself. See personal information manager for information about tools for personal information management. Study[edit] Interest in the study of PIM has increased in recent years. One goal in the study of PIM is to identify ways to introduce new tool support without inadvertently increasing the complexity of a person’s information management challenge. The study of PIM means understanding better how people manage information across tools and over time. It is not enough simply to study, for example, e-mail use in isolation. A related point is that the value of a new tool must be assessed over time and in a broader context of a person’s various PIM activities. Related activities and areas[edit] PIM shares considerable, potentially synergistic overlap with disciplines such as cognitive science, human-computer interaction, information science, artificial intelligence, database management and information retrieval. PIM relates to but differs from other fields of inquiry that study the interactions between people, information and technology. Cognitive psychology and cognitive science[edit] Cognitive psychology, as the study of how people learn and remember, problem solve, and make decisions, necessarily also includes the study of how people make smart use of available information. The related field of cognitive science, in its efforts to apply these questions more broadly to the study and simulation of intelligent behavior, is also related to PIM. Cognitive science has strong connections to, some would say subsumes, the field of artificial intelligence. There is great potential for a mutually beneficial interplay between cognitive science and PIM. Sub-areas of cognitive science of clear relevance to PIM include problem solving and decision making. For example, folders created to hold information for a big project such as “plan my wedding” may sometimes resemble a problem-decomposition.[3] To take another example, signal detection task[4] has long been used to frame and explain human behavior and has recently been used as a basis for analyzing our choices concerning what information to keep and how – a key activity of PIM.[5] Or consider categorization and concept formation. How are categories and concepts learned and used? Categories and concepts can be seen directly but may be reflected in the tags and folders people use to organize their information. Or consider the activities of reading and writing. Both are areas of study in cognitive psychology with clear relevance to the study of PIM. Now large portions of a document may be the product of “copy-and-paste” operations (from our previous writings) rather than a product of original writing. Certainly, management of text pieces pasted for re-use is a PIM activity, and this raises several interesting questions. How do we go about deciding when to re-use and when to write from scratch? We may sometimes spend more time chasing down a paragraph we have previously written than it would have taken to simply write a new paragraph expressing the same thoughts. Beyond this, we can wonder at what point a reliance on an increasing (and increasingly available) supply of previously written material begins to impact our creativity. As people do PIM they work in an external environment that includes other people, available technology and organizational setting. This means that situated cognition, distributed cognition, and social cognition all relate to the study of PIM. Human-computer and human-information interaction[edit] The study of PIM is also related to the field of human-computer interaction (HCI). But PIM research puts emphasis on the broader study of how people manage their information over time using a variety of tools – some computer-based, some not. The User-Subjective Approach is the first approach dedicated specifically to PIM systems design. Its theoretical foundations were first published in a Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology paper in 2003.[6] Another JASIST paper with evidence and implementation for the approach was published in 2008.[7] The paper had won the Best JASIST Paper award in 2009.[8] The first user-subjective design scheme was developed and positively evaluated in a Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems paper published in 2009[9] Management of data, information, knowledge, time and tasks[edit] The study of information management and knowledge management in organizations relates to the study of PIM. Jones notes that issues seen first at an organizational level often migrate to the PIM domain.[10] PIM can help to motivate and will also benefit from work in information retrieval and database management. For example, data mining techniques might be applied to mine and structure personal information. Relation to time management and productivity[edit] By similar argument, a discussion of time management or task management on a personal level quickly takes us back to a discussion of PIM. Both time and task management make heavy use of information tools and external forms of information such as to-do lists, calendars, timelines, Gantt charts, etc.; this information, to be managed like other information. See also[edit] Personal data manager Personal information manager Personal knowledge management Time management Information management Group information management (GIM) List of personal information managers Personal organizer Personal wiki Semantic desktop Desktop wiki References[edit] ^ Barreau, Deborah; Nardi, Bonnie A (1995), "Finding and Reminding: File Organization from the Desktop", ACM SIGCHI Bulletin 27 (3): 39–43  ^ Jones, William; Bruce, Harry, A Report on the NSF-Sponsored Workshop on Personal Information Management, Seattle, WA, 2005, The Information School, University of Washington  ^ Jones, W., Phuwanartnurak, A. J., Gill, R., & Bruce, H. (2005, April 2–7). Don't take my folders away! Organizing personal information to get things done. Paper presented at the ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 2005), Portland, OR. ^ Peterson, W. W., Birdsall, T. G., & Fox, W. C. (1954). The theory of signal detectability. Institute of Radio Engineers Transactions, PGIT-4, 171-212. ^ Jones, W. (2004).Finders, keepers? The present and future perfect in support of personal information management. First Monday. ^ The user-subjective approach to personal information management systems - Bergman - 2003 - Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology - Wiley Online Library. Onlinelibrary.wiley.com. Retrieved on 2013-09-09. ^ The user-subjective approach to personal information management systems design: Evidence and implementations - Bergman - 2007 - Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology - Wiley Online Library. Onlinelibrary.wiley.com. Retrieved on 2013-09-09. ^ Best JASIST Paper Award. Asis.org. Retrieved on 2013-09-09. ^ It's not that important. Portal.acm.org. Retrieved on 2013-09-09. ^ Jones, W. (2007). Personal information management. In B. Cronin (Ed.), Annual Review of Information Science and Technology (ARIST) (Vol. 41). Medford, NJ: Information Today. Books and articles on PIM[edit] Bellotti, Victoria, Ducheneaut, Nicolas, Howard, Mark & Smith, Ian. (2003) "Taking email to task: the design and evaluation of a task management centered email tool." In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems. Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, USA : ACM Bergman, Ofer, Boardman, Richard, Gwizdka, Jacek & Jones, William. "Personal information management." Extended Abstracts of the 2004 Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (pp. 1598–1599), Vienna, Austria. Bergman, Ofer, Beyth-Marom, Ruth & Nachmias, Rafi (2006). "The project fragmentation problem in personal information management." In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in computing systems. Montréal, Québec, Canada : ACM. Bergman, Ofer, Beyth-Marom, Ruth & Nachmias, Rafi (2008). The user-subjective approach to personal information management systems design: Evidence and implementations. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology 59(2): pp 235–246. Bergman, Ofer, Beyth-Marom, Ruth, Nachmias, Rafi, Gradovitch, Noa & Whittaker, Steve (2008). Advanced search engines and navigation preference in personal information management. Special Issue of ACM Transactions on Information Systems on Keeping, Re-finding and Sharing Personal Information 26(4): pp. 30–54. Bergman, Ofer, Whittaker, Steve, Sanderson, Mark, Nachmias, Rafi, & Ramamoorthy, Aanad (2010). The effect of folder structure on personal file navigation. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology 61(12): pp 2426–2441. Boardman, Richard & Sasse, M. Angela. (2004) "Stuff goes into the computer and doesn't come out": a cross-tool study of personal information management." In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems. Vienna, Austria : ACM. Dumais, Susan, Cutrell, Edward, Cadiz, J. J., Jancke, Gavin, Sarin, Raman & Robbins, Daniel C. (2003) "Stuff I've seen: a system for personal information retrieval and re-use." In Proceedings of the 26th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval. Toronto, Canada : ACM Jones, W. (2008). Keeping Found Things Found: The Study and Practice of Personal Information Management. Burlington, MA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. Book info at: Morgan Kaufmann | Amazon ISBN 978-0-12-370866-3 Jones, W. & Teevan, J. (Eds.) (2007). Personal Information Management. Seattle, WA: University of Washington Press. Book info at: University of Washington Press | Amazon ISBN 978-0-295-98737-8 Jones, W. (2004).Finders, keepers? The present and future perfect in support of personal information management. First Monday, 9(3). Available at http://firstmonday.org/htbin/cgiwrap/bin/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/1123/1043. Jones, W. (2007). Personal information management. In B. Cronin (Ed.), Annual Review of Information Science and Technology (ARIST) (Vol. 41). Medford, NJ: Information Today. Kaye, Joseph 'Jofish', Vertesi, Janet, Avery, Shari, Dafoe, Allan, David, Shay, Onaga, Lisa, Rosero, Ivan & Pinch, Trevor. (2006) "To have and to hold: exploring the personal archive." In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in computing systems. Montréal, Québec, Canada : ACM. Lansdale, M.W. (March 1988) "The psychology of personal information management." Applied Ergonomics. 19:1, pp. 55–66. Ravasio, Pamela, Sch?r, Sissel Guttormsen & Krueger, Helmut. (2004) "In pursuit of desktop evolution: User problems and practices with modern desktop systems." ACM Trans. Comput.-Hum. Interact.. 11:2, pp. 156–180. Teevan, Jaime, Jones, William & Bederson, Benjamin B. (2006 January) "SPECIAL ISSUE: Personal information management." Commun. ACM. 49:1 Whittaker, Steve & Sidner, Candace. (1996) "Email overload: exploring personal information management of email." In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems: common ground. Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada : ACM. Whittaker, S., and Hirschberg, J. (2001). "The character, value and management of paper archive." ACM Transactions on Computer Human Interaction, 8, 150-170. Whittaker, Steve (2011). Personal information management: From Consumption to Curation. In B. Cronin (Ed.), Annual Review of Information Science and Technology (ARIST) (Vol. 45). Medford, NJ: Information Today. Other resources[edit] The Seven habits of highly effective information managers. pim-disc yahoo group A mailinglist and collaboration platform for PIM researchers. personalim Xing group A meeting place for German-speaking PIM researchers and practitioners. Who's working on Personal Information Management? Authored by Richard Boardman, Imperial College London (July 2003) Resources for Personal Information Management Community Portal managed by the University of Washington, features a link collection, workshops, books Memoria-Mea Project, MISG/ICTI EIA-FR Switzerland List of PIM publications at the Keeping Found Things Found (KFTF) project website. PIM 2008 workshop PIM Agenda A blog focused on practical tips and advice around PIM A list of personal document management software Personal Information Management (PIM) resources - A Wiki dedicated to the research of PIM A list of PIM research prototypes v t e Free and open-source collaborative software Client-Server Bongo Buni Meldware Citadel DAViCal Kolab SOGo (OpenGroupware.org) Bynari Open-Xchange OBM Groupware Scalix Zimbra Zarafa Web-based Citadel eGroupWare Group-Office Horde KnowledgeTree Kolab Feng Office Community Edition OBM Groupware phpGroupWare Simple Groupware SOGo (OpenGroupware.org) Tine 2.0 Personal information managers Evolution Kontact Spicebird Mozilla Sunbird Mozilla Thunderbird / Lightning Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Personal_information_management&oldid=590206037" Categories: Personal information managers Human–computer interaction Information science Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?e?tina Deutsch Espa?ol Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski ??????? This page was last modified on 11 January 2014 at 11:00. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view