Rocchio algorithm - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Rocchio algorithm From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Rocchio Classification) Jump to: navigation, search The Rocchio algorithm is based on a method of relevance feedback found in information retrieval systems which stemmed from the SMART Information Retrieval System around the year 1970. Like many other retrieval systems, the Rocchio feedback approach was developed using the Vector Space Model. The algorithm is based on the assumption that most users have a general conception of which documents should be denoted as relevant or non-relevant.[1] Therefore, the user's search query is revised to include an arbitrary percentage of relevant and non-relevant documents as a means of increasing the search engine's recall, and possibly the precision as well. The number of relevant and non-relevant documents allowed to enter a query is dictated by the weights of the a, b, c variables listed below in the Algorithm section.[2] Contents 1 Algorithm 2 Time complexity 3 Usage 4 Limitations 5 See also 6 References Algorithm[edit] The formula and variable definitions for Rocchio relevance feedback is as follows:[3] Variable Value Modified Query Vector Original Query Vector Related Document Vector Non-Related Document Vector Original Query Weight Related Documents Weight Non-Related Documents Weight Set of Related Documents Set of Non-Related Documents Rocchio Classification As demonstrated in the Rocchio formula, the associated weights (a, b, c) are responsible for shaping the modified vector in a direction closer, or farther away, from the original query, related documents, and non-related documents. In particular, the values for b and c should be incremented or decremented proportionally to the set of documents classified by the user. If the user decides that the modified query should not contain terms from either the original query, related documents, or non-related documents, then the corresponding weight (a, b, c) value for the category should be set to 0. In the later part of the algorithm, the variables Dr, and Dnr are presented to be sets of vectors containing the coordinates of related documents and non-related documents. Though Dr and Dnr are not vectors themselves, and are the vectors used to iterate through the two sets and form vector summations. These summations will be multiplied against the Multiplicative inverse of their respective document set (Dr, Dnr) to complete the addition or subtraction of related or non-related documents. In order to visualize the changes taking place on the modified vector, please refer to the image below.[4] As the weights are increased or decreased for a particular category of documents, the coordinates for the modified vector begin to move either closer, or farther away, from the centroid of the document collection. Thus if the weight is increased for related documents, then the modified vectors coordinates will reflect being closer to the centroid of related documents. Time complexity[edit] The time complexity for training and testing the Rocchio Classification algorithm are listed below and followed by the definition of each variable. Note that when in testing phase, the time complexity can be reduced to that of calculating the euclidean distance between a class centroid and the respective document. As shown by: . Training = Testing = [5] Variable Value Labeled Document Set Average Tokens Per Document Class Set Vocabulary/Term Set Number of Tokens in Document Number of Types in Document Usage[edit] Though there are benefits to ranking documents as not-relevant, a relevant document ranking will result in more precise documents being made available to the user. Therefore, traditional values for the algorithm's weights (a, b, c) in Rocchio Classification are typically around a = 1, b = 0.8, and c = 0.1. Modern information retrieval systems have moved towards eliminating the non-related documents by setting c = 0 and thus only accounting for related documents. Although not all retrieval systems have eliminated the need for non-related documents, most have limited the effects on modified query by only accounting for strongest non-related documents in the Dnr set. Limitations[edit] The Rocchio algorithm often fails to classify multimodal classes and relationships. For instance, the country of Burma was renamed to Myanmar in 1989. Therefore the two queries of "Burma" and "Myanmar" will appear much farther apart in the vector space model, though they both contain similar origins.[6] See also[edit] Nearest centroid classifier, aka Rocchio classifier References[edit] ^ Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, Hinrich Schütze: An Introduction to Information Retrieval, page 181. Cambridge University Press, 2009. ^ Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, Hinrich Schütze: An Introduction to Information Retrieval, page 292. Cambridge University Press, 2009. ^ Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, Hinrich Schütze: An Introduction to Information Retrieval, page 182. Cambridge University Press, 2009. ^ Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, Hinrich Schütze: An Introduction to Information Retrieval, page 293. Cambridge University Press, 2009. ^ Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, Hinrich Schütze: An Introduction to Information Retrieval, page 296. Cambridge University Press, 2009. ^ Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, Hinrich Schütze: An Introduction to Information Retrieval, page 296. Cambridge University Press, 2009. Relevance Feedback and Query Expansion Vector Space Classification Data Classification Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rocchio_algorithm&oldid=572330307" Categories: Information retrieval Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Edit links This page was last modified on 10 September 2013 at 11:41. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view