XML-Retrieval - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia XML-Retrieval From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (February 2009) XML Retrieval, or XML Information Retrieval,[1] is the content-based retrieval of documents structured with XML (eXtensible Markup Language). As such it is used for computing relevance of XML documents.[2] Contents 1 Queries 2 Exploiting XML structure 3 Ranking 4 Existing XML search engines 4.1 Traditional XML query languages 4.2 Databases 4.3 Information retrieval 5 See also 6 References Queries[edit] Most XML retrieval approaches do so based on techniques from the information retrieval (IR) area, e.g. by computing the similarity between a query consisting of keywords (query terms) and the document. However, in XML-Retrieval the query can also contain structural hints. So-called "content and structure" (CAS) queries enable users to specify what structure the requested content can or must have. Exploiting XML structure[edit] Taking advantage of the self-describing structure of XML documents can improve the search for XML documents significantly. This includes the use of CAS queries, the weighting of different XML elements differently and the focused retrieval of subdocuments. Ranking[edit] Ranking in XML-Retrieval can incorporate both content relevance and structural similarity, which is the resemblance between the structure given in the query and the structure of the document. Also, the retrieval units resulting from an XML query may not always be entire documents, but can be any deeply nested XML elements, i.e. dynamic documents. The aim is to find the smallest retrieval unit that is highly relevant. Relevance can be defined according to the notion of specificity, which is the extent to which a retrieval unit focuses on the topic of request.[3] Existing XML search engines[edit] An overview of two potential approaches is available.[4][5] The INitiative for the Evaluation of XML-Retrieval (INEX) was founded in 2002 and provides a platform for evaluating such algorithms.[3] Three different areas influence XML-Retrieval:[6] Traditional XML query languages[edit] Query languages such as the W3C standard XQuery[7] supply complex queries, but only look for exact matches. Therefore, they need to be extended to allow for vague search with relevance computing. Most XML-centered approaches imply a quite exact knowledge of the documents' schemas.[8] Databases[edit] Classic database systems have adopted the possibility to store semi-structured data[6] and resulted in the development of XML databases. Often, they are very formal, concentrate more on searching than on ranking, and are used by experienced users able to formulate complex queries. Information retrieval[edit] Classic information retrieval models such as the vector space model provide relevance ranking, but do not include document structure; only flat queries are supported. Also, they apply a static document concept, so retrieval units usually are entire documents.[8] They can be extended to consider structural information and dynamic document retrieval. Examples for approaches extending the vector space models are available: they use document subtrees (index terms plus structure) as dimensions of the vector space.[9] See also[edit] Document retrieval Information retrieval applications References[edit] ^ Luk, R.W.P.; H.V. Leong, T.S. Dillon, Alvin T. S. Chan, W. B. Croft and J. Allan (2002). "A survey in indexing and searching XML documents". Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology 53 (6): 415–437. doi:10.1002/asi.10056.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Winter, Judith; Drobnik, Oswald (November 9, 2007). "An Architecture for XML Information Retrieval in a Peer-to-Peer Environment". ACM. Retrieved 2009-02-10.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ a b Malik, Saadia; Trotman, Andrew; Lalmas, Mounia; Fuhr, Norbert (2007). "Overview of INEX 2006". Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop of the INitiative for the Evaluation of XML Retrieval. Retrieved 2009-02-10.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Amer-Yahia, Sihem; Lalmas, Mounia (2006). "XML Search: Languages, INEX and Scoring". SIGMOD Rec. Vol. 35, No. 4. Retrieved 2009-02-10.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help)[dead link] ^ Pal, Sukomal (June 30, 2006). "XML Retrieval: A Survey". Technical Report, CVPR. Retrieved 2013-07-04.  ^ a b Fuhr, Norbert; G?vert, N.; Kazai, Gabriella; Lalmas, Mounia (2003). "INEX: Initiative for the Evaluation of XML Retrieval". Proceedings of the First INEX Workshop, Dagstuhl, Germany, 2002. ERCIM Workshop Proceedings, France. Retrieved 2009-02-10.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Boag, Scott; Chamberlin, Don; Fern?ndez, Mary F.; Florescu, Daniela; Robie, Jonathan; Siméon, Jérôme (23 January 2007). "XQuery 1.0: An XML Query Language". W3C Recommendation. World Wide Web Consortium. Retrieved 2009-02-10.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ a b Schlieder, Torsten; Meuss, Holger (2002). "Querying and Ranking XML Documents". Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, Vol. 53, No. 6. Retrieved 2009-02-10.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Liu, Shaorong; Zou, Qinghua; Chu, Wesley W. (2004). "Configurable Indexing and Ranking for XML Information Retrieval". SIGIR'04. ACM. Retrieved 2009-02-10.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=XML-Retrieval&oldid=574155122" Categories: XML Information retrieval Hidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from October 2010 Wikipedia articles with possible conflicts of interest from February 2009 Pages with multiple issues using deprecated parameters Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Suomi Edit links This page was last modified on 23 September 2013 at 08:57. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view