Talk:Information retrieval - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Talk:Information retrieval From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search           This article is of interest to the following WikiProjects: WikiProject Computing (Rated Start-class, Mid-importance) ComputingWikipedia:WikiProject ComputingTemplate:WikiProject ComputingComputing articles Information technology portal v t e This article is within the scope of WikiProject Computing, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of computers, computing, and information technology on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.  Start  This article has been rated as Start-Class on the project's quality scale.  Mid  This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale.   WikiProject Libraries (Rated Start-class, Mid-importance) LibrariesWikipedia:WikiProject LibrariesTemplate:WikiProject LibrariesLibraries articles Library and information science portal v t e This article is within the scope of WikiProject Libraries, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Libraries on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.  Start  This article has been rated as Start-Class on the project's quality scale.  Mid  This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale.   WikiProject Linguistics / Applied Linguistics  (Rated Start-class) LinguisticsWikipedia:WikiProject LinguisticsTemplate:WikiProject LinguisticsLinguistics articles Linguistics portal v t e This article is within the scope of WikiProject Linguistics, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Linguistics on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.  Start  This article has been rated as Start-Class on the project's quality scale.  ???  This article has not yet received a rating on the project's importance scale. This article is supported by the Applied Linguistics Task Force.   This article has been automatically rated by a bot or other tool because one or more other projects use this class. Please ensure the assessment is correct before removing the |auto= parameter. WikiProject Databases / Computer science  (Rated Start-class, Mid-importance) DatabasesWikipedia:WikiProject DatabasesTemplate:WikiProject DatabasesDatabase articles Computer science portal v t e This article is within the scope of WikiProject Databases, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of database related articles on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.  Start  This article has been rated as Start-Class on the project's quality scale.  Mid  This article has been rated as Mid-importance on the project's importance scale. This article is supported by WikiProject Computer science (marked as Mid-importance).   Contents 1 Huge gaps in article 2 Precision and Recall: Separate page 3 Cleaning 4 Precision and Recall 5 Major figures in information retrieval 6 F Measure 7 Evaluation of machine translation 8 Terminology according to ISO 9 History of IR 10 Break IR down into subfields 11 References would be nice 12 Confusion table 13 Glimpse / Webglimpse 14 MAP 15 New article request 15.1 Information scent 16 Term Discrimination 17 Relevance 18 External Links 19 ASIS&T Award of Merit 20 Major figures 21 Question answering 22 'Science' 23 Graphic Help Huge gaps in article[edit] This article is missing major concepts. For example, there is no mention of page rank (!) or the receiver operating characteristic in evaluation, or multimedia IR. I agree precision/recall -- ROC -- evaluation might do better in a separate page. 67.101.41.94 (talk) 18:04, 10 July 2008 (UTC) A very major issue of this article is the fact that the second half of information retrieval is completely ignored: navigation (or browsing). A huge number of IR studies even show that navigation is by far the more important retrieval method. As a hybrid method, faceted search/navigation is also missing. Information retrieval is not the same as search! Novoid (talk) 16:09, 20 August 2012 (UTC) If you look at the study of information retrieval (e.g., conferences like the ACM Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval), you'll see that navigation and browsing don't get that much attention. I happen to be passionate about Human–computer information retrieval myself, but I think the content in this entry is fairly representative of the field. There are gaps, but I wouldn't call them huge. Dtunkelang (talk) 13:32, 21 August 2012 (UTC) Precision and Recall: Separate page[edit] Searching for precision/recall, I was surprised to find them "buried" here in the IR page, and not described in a separate wiki article (as they are in German). Precision and Recall are widely used in different fields of computer science, not only IR. Therefore, I have created a precision/recall page, Precision and Recall mostly adapted from the German page Tobi Kellner (talk) 07:30, 21 November 2007 (UTC) PLEASE check and correct my Precision and Recall article! Cleaning[edit] Rather than clean those two paragraphs up again, I chose to revert to Mikkalai's version, which retained the corrections. If the missing paragraph is re-inserted, please make sure that the grammatical corrections are not overwritten. The two paragraphs I had cleaned up looked like they were written in another language and run through a translation program. They used English words and successfully communicated a concept, but were horrible from a readability standpoint. Please do not overwrite corrections that do not affect the substance of the material. SWAdair | Talk 06:15, 13 May 2004 (UTC) I am planning on removing the lists of open source and other IR tools, perhaps incorporating some into the list of search engines. This is a downwards spiral trend of introducing spam into the article. WP:NOT a directory or place for commercial links. While I understand some may have good intentions, we can't keep some and then hide others and there are all types of issues. I might do this soon given the recent edits to this page. Please let me know of any objections. Josh Froelich 03:29, 7 January 2007 (UTC) Precision and Recall[edit] Current or tide: P = (number of relevant documents retrieved) / (number of retrieved documents) R = (number of retrieved documents) / (number of relevant documents) Correct or tidy: P = (number of relevant documents retrieved) / (number of documents retrieved) R = (number of relevant documents retrieved) / (number of relevant documents stored) Hopefully yours, --KYPark 01:15, 3 Jun 2005 (UTC) Thank you. I've implemented the corrections you suggested. In general: If you feel a change is needed, feel free to make it yourself! Wikipedia is a wiki, so anyone (yourself included) can edit any article by following the Edit this page link. You don't even need to log in, although there are several reasons why you might want to. Wikipedia convention is to be bold and not be afraid of making mistakes. If you're not sure how editing works, have a look at How to edit a page, or try out the Sandbox to test your editing skills. New contributors are always welcome. --MarkSweep 03:40, 3 Jun 2005 (UTC) Major figures in information retrieval[edit] I wonder if having a subjective list of "major figures" is really a good idea... Sure, there are some recognizeable people in the field, but who decides who goes on the list and who doesn't? I have my own list of who I think are "major figures", and I'm sure there might be others who have a completely disjoint list. Just seems too subjective to me. --.msbmsb 19:21, 17 October 2005 (UTC) F Measure[edit] I've changed the formula for F measure, so that it uses the product of N squared and P, rather than the product of N squared and R, in the denominator. This brings the formula in line with that used by van Rijsbergen (as referenced in the article), and is consistent with the descriptions of F0.5 and F2 as given in the article. Evaluation of machine translation[edit] Precision/Recall are often used in the automatic evaluation of machine translation, indeed in a lot of NLP evaluation. - 88.96.32.193 13:48, 4 May 2006 (UTC) Terminology according to ISO[edit] I have talked with many people trained in science and engineering who are initially very confused by the IR terms "precision" and "recall". The confusion is caused by incompatible meanings for IR "precision" versus the other technical meanings of precision. Only when the terms are defined in context of IR do we realize "precision" and "recall" map to relevancy (a form of accuracy) and sensitivity (tests) respectively. In an encyclopedia, it would be considerate to make this clear early and often in discussions using IR's "precision" and "recall". Please look at the following excerpt from Talk:Accuracy_and_precision#Terminology according to ISO. The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) provides the following definitions. Accuracy: The closeness of agreement between a test result and the accepted reference value. Trueness: The closeness of agreement between the average value obtained from a large series of test results and an accepted reference value. Precision: The closeness of agreement between independent test results obtained under stipulated conditions. Reference: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 5725. Accuracy (trueness and precision) of measurement methods and results. Geneve: ISO, 1994. Clark Mobarry 18:03, 12 May 2006 (UTC) Sure, the distinction should be made clear, but I don't think it needs to be phrased as '"beware", this definition "conflicts" with others'... .msbmsb 18:52, 12 May 2006 (UTC) History of IR[edit] How about a (short) section discussing the history and development of IR. Stuff like the initial impetus for IR (census information etc.) IR establishing itself as its own field. Changing descriptions of IR over time... IR and the WWW... It's all about the memex. 74.220.78.49 09:46, 19 September 2007 (UTC) Break IR down into subfields[edit] One thing I missed when I read this article was that information retrieval was not broken down into smaller subfields. It might be helpful to break this field down when developing the article further. Nybbles 10:29, 17 November 2006 (UTC) References would be nice[edit] For those of us wanting to cite something other than this article it would give a nice starting point to give, say, the source of each equation. 65.93.206.3 07:43, 20 December 2006 (UTC) Confusion table[edit] I think the whole article would be much easier to follow in terms of true positives, etc. instead of retrieved documents, relevant documents, etc. --Ben T/C 15:40, 21 May 2007 (UTC) Absolutely not. These are standard terms. 74.220.78.49 09:55, 19 September 2007 (UTC) Glimpse / Webglimpse[edit] They are listed in open-source IR systems but according to their respective websites, their licenses do not seem to be open-source anymore. I don't know if they were open-source or not in the past, so I didn't remove them. Maybe someone with more knowledge on the subject could take care of the issue ? --Lastrainson 09:57, 5 September 2007 (UTC) MAP[edit] The following comments were posted on the article page: shouldn't the denominator just be N instead of number of relevant documents? It seems natural to me that if you're summing N occurrences of P, that you would then divide by N. This change would make all the problems mentioned below go away Please confirm/delete/edit the following. One version of MAP I've seen is referred to as MAP @ N (where N is an arbitary retrieval cut-off, typical 5, 10, 20 etc). In this case, the formula does not seem to be correct. For example -- consider first 4 ranks are relevant, the 5th is non-relevant. So AP @ 1 = 1, @ 2= 1, @ 3= 1 , @ 4 = 1 , and surprisingly it is still 1 @5 = (( 1+1+1+1 + 0)/ 4) This is clearly wrong. AP should be calculated even when the rel(r) is not true. Thus for this silly example, it would (1+1+1+1+0.8 ) / 5 . Which brings me to my second question -the numerator "Relevant Documents" is retrieved relevant, but actually again, for MAP @ N, it should be "retrieved documents (ie N). The above definition only seems to work when the LAST retrieved item is relevant. Final comment - what does one do when |all relevant docs| < N AND |all retrieved relevant| == |all relevant documents|. This may happen with some specific test sets. My solution is to stop calculating MAP at the rank of the last, highest relevant document retrieved, and reporting that MAP for all following MAP @ x statistics. Depending on who owns this page, perhaps some Matlab or R code would be nice. The denominator in the average precision formula is the number of relevant documents because effectively there are exactly that many terms in the sum (rel(r) = 0 for nonrelevant documents). The (mean) average precision formula considers the list of retrieved documents only up to the last relevant document. It doesn't care if there are nonrelevant documents after the it. So if the four relevant documents are on ranks 1-4 the AP is always 1 regardless of possible nonrelevant documents after the rank 4. AnAj 07:26, 13 October 2007 (UTC) New article request[edit] Hi there, I'd like to suggest a new article on the full history of information handling/management/techonology (details). I'm not knowledgeable enough to do it myself, but contributors here probably are. Thanks, JackyR | Talk 18:04, 4 December 2007 (UTC) Information scent[edit] Also add an article about information scent, as also noted on information foraging. Jidanni (talk) 18:35, 18 February 2008 (UTC) Term Discrimination[edit] I am going to start a new page on TermDiscrimination. I am a noob, so can some one give me some pointers on how to get this article linked to? Dspattison (talk) 18:29, 7 January 2008 (UTC) Relevance[edit] I just overhauled the Relevance (information_retrieval) entry after an unsuccessful attempt to get it deleted and merged into this one. Please take a look and help improve it and appropriately link it to this one. Dtunkelang (talk) 14:30, 26 May 2008 (UTC) External Links[edit] Should we move the "5 Open source systems" and "6 Other retrieval tools" sections somewhere else? I assume those are the sections triggering the external links warning. Dtunkelang (talk) 04:41, 4 June 2008 (UTC) ASIS&T Award of Merit[edit] The ASIS&T Award of Merit, established in 1964 by the Delaware Valley Chapter, is now the Society's highest honor, bestowed annually to an individual who has made a noteworthy contribution to the field of information science, including the expression of new ideas, the creation of new devices, the development of better techniques and outstanding service to the profession of information science. The Award of Merit is sponsored directory by the Society. Past recipients of the Award of Merit: 2008 Clifford Lynch 2007 Donald H. Kraft 2006 Blaise Cronin, ARIST editor, Indiana University 2005 Marcia Bates 2004 Howard D. White 2003 Nicholas J. Belkin 2002 Karen Sparck Jones 2001 Patrick G. Wilson 2000 Donald R. Swanson 1999 Jose Marie Griffiths 1998 Henry Small 1997 Dagobert Soergel 1996 Jean Tague-Sutcliffe 1995 Tefko Saracevic 1994 Harold Borko 1993 Robert M. Hayes 1992 Robert S. Taylor 1991 Roger K. Summit 1990 P. Atherton Cochrane 1989 Gerard Salton 1988 F. Wilfrid Lancaster 1987 Donald W. King 1986 Bernard M. Fry 1985 Robert L. Chartrand 1984 Joseph D. Becker 1983 Dale B. Baker 1982 Andrew A. Aines 1981 Herbert S. White 1980 Claire K. Schultz 1979 Frederick Kilgour 1978 Calvin N. Mooers 1977 Allen Kent 1976 Laurence Heilprin 1975 Eugene Garfield 1974 Manfred Kochen 1973 Jesse H. Shera 1972 Phyllis Richmond 1971 Jerold Orne 1970 Cyril W. Cleverdon 1968 Carlos A. Cuadra 1967 Robert Fairthorne 1966 Mortimer Taube 1965 Charles P. Bourne 1964 Hans Peter Luhn Cited by --KYPark (talk) 19:22, 7 November 2009 (UTC) Major figures[edit] Thomas Bayes Claude E. Shannon Gerard Salton Hans Peter Luhn W. Bruce Croft - Cambridge Karen Sp?rck Jones - Cambridge C. J. van Rijsbergen - Cambridge Stephen E. Robertson - Cambridge Martin Porter - Cambridge My comment The first two, Bayes and Shannon, were not contributing to information retrieval (hence rather irrelevant) but statistical inference in general. The next two, Luhn and Salton, were frontal, computational and experimental, helplessly suffering from lack of decent relevant IR theories. The rest are Cambridge alumni or affiliates. They were especially keen on statistical approaches, which make up a part of what IR is all about as an average science. The keyword web and the citation web are the two driving wheels of IR, not to mention any information search or research as well as (esp. new) encyclopedism. Hence the pivotal role of hypertext in principle and practice, around which a variety of statistical and computational methods may center. Frankly, the major figures, as biased as above, have little to do with such a central role obvious since late 1970s. --KYPark (talk) 21:21, 7 November 2009 (UTC) Question answering[edit] The question answering article begins "In information retrieval, question answering (QA) is the task of automatically answering a question posed in natural language." Yet there is no mention of question answering in this article. pgr94 (talk) 17:49, 21 June 2010 (UTC) 'Science'[edit] I'm not sure about the criteria used in these cases, but shouldn't 'IR is the science of searching...' read 'IR is the field of computer science' or something similar? i.e. calling IR a science by itself goes a bit over the top, doesn't it? 94.67.230.10 (talk) 06:57, 3 March 2011 (UTC) (to bored to start an account) Replaced "science" with "area of study". Dtunkelang (talk) 07:33, 6 March 2011 (UTC) Graphic Help[edit] There's a little mistake in adaptation of Kuropka's categorization. It should be "Binary Independence", instead of "Binary Interdependence". I don't know how to edit this part (I'm pretty new to this and it's a graphic). — Preceding unsigned comment added by 186.176.147.82 (talk) 02:42, 13 February 2013 (UTC) Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Information_retrieval&oldid=562921575" Categories: Start-Class Computing articles Mid-importance Computing articles All Computing articles Start-Class Libraries articles Mid-importance Libraries articles WikiProject Libraries articles Start-Class Linguistics articles Unknown-importance Linguistics articles Start-Class applied linguistics articles Applied Linguistics Task Force articles Automatically assessed Linguistics articles WikiProject Linguistics articles Start-Class Database articles Mid-importance Database articles Start-Class Computer science articles Mid-importance Computer science articles WikiProject Computer science articles WikiProject Database articles Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit New section View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages This page was last modified on 5 July 2013 at 03:00. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view