Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 4,429,113 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article The Lieutenant Governor of New Jersey is an elected constitutional officer in the executive branch of the state government of New Jersey in the United States. The person elected to this position is the second highest-ranking official in the state government. Before 2010, New Jersey was one of a few U.S. states that did not have a lieutenant governor. Two men were appointed to the office during brief periods in New Jersey's colonial era (1664–1776), but for most the state's history, the senate president would become "acting governor" during vacancies in the governor's office. After the resignations of Governors Christine Todd Whitman in 2001 and Jim McGreevey in 2004, the state had several acting governors in the span of a few years. Popular sentiment and political pressure from the state's residents and news media outlets sought a better rule for gubernatorial succession. In a referendum, the state's voters authorized a 2006 amendment of the State Constitution to create the position. In the 2009 gubernatorial election, voters elected Republican Kim Guadagno (pictured) to be the first to serve in the post in its modern form. (Full article...) Recently featured: Tiruchirappalli – No. 2 Operational Conversion Unit RAAF – Nigersaurus Archive – By email – More featured articles... Did you know... From Wikipedia's new and recently improved content: ... that Andrew Stevovich's work (example pictured) has been described by art critic Carol Diehl as a marriage of simplicity and complexity? ... that the Aurora Film Corporation, founded in 1906, produced India's first newsreel and first children's film? ... that Bill Hooper scored Darlington's first Football League goal, which was "in all probability" the first goal scored in the Third Division North? ... that the navigator was the sole survivor of Tajikistan Airlines Flight 3183 which crashed near Sharjah, killing 85 people? ... that during World War II, Otto Busse provided the partisans of Bia?ystok with weapons, clothing and medicines at his own expense? ... that the Indonesian wayang theatre developed from the Ravana Chhaya puppet theatre of Odisha, India? ... that the Yamaha NS-10 sounded so bright that Bob Clearmountain had to hang tissue paper over the tweeter? Archive – Start a new article – Nominate an article In the news Scientists measure the optical spectrum of ball lightning for the first time. Egypt approves a new constitution. Archaeologists discover the tombs of Sobekhotep I and the previously unknown Abydos Dynasty pharaoh, Seneb Kay. During heavy fighting over Malakal, South Sudan, a Nile ferry carrying refugees sinks, drowning more than 200 people. In association football, Cristiano Ronaldo (pictured) wins the FIFA Ballon d'Or and Nadine Angerer wins the Women's World Player of the Year award. Israeli politician and general Ariel Sharon dies after being in a permanent vegetative state for eight years. Recent deaths: Claudio Abbado – Suchitra Sen – Hiroo Onoda More current events... On this day... January 21: Feast Day of Saint Agnes (Christianity); Flag Day in Quebec 763 – The Abbasid Caliphate crushed the Alid Revolt when one of the rebellion leaders was mortally wounded in battle near Basra in what is now Iraq. 1525 – The Anabaptist Movement was born when founders Conrad Grebel, Felix Manz, and George Blaurock re-baptized each other and other followers in Zürich, Switzerland, believing that the Christian religious practice of infant baptism is invalid because a child cannot commit to a religious faith. 1912 – Raymond Poincaré (pictured), who would pursue hardline anti-German policies, began his first term as Prime Minister of France. 1968 – Vietnam War: The Vietnam People's Army attacked Khe Sanh Combat Base, a U.S. Marines outpost in Quang Tri Province, South Vietnam, starting the Battle of Khe Sanh. 1997 – The U.S. House of Representatives voted 395–28 to reprimand Newt Gingrich for ethics violations, making him the first Speaker of the House to be so disciplined. More anniversaries: January 20 – January 21 – January 22 Archive – By email – List of historical anniversaries It is now January 21, 2014 (UTC) – Reload this page Today's featured picture The R Coronae Australis region, imaged with the Wide Field Imager at the European Southern Observatory's La Silla Observatory. R Coronae Australis is a star located in the Corona Australis constellation. According to ESO, "the light blue nebulosity seen in this picture is mostly due to the reflection of starlight off small dust particles." Photograph: ESO Recently featured: Olympic women's cycling winners, 2012 – St. Francis in Ecstasy – Streisand Effect Archive – More featured pictures... Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 4,429,113 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch espa?ol français italiano Nederlands polski ??????? svenska More than 400,000 articles: català ??? norsk bokm?l português Ti?ng Vi?t ?????????? ?? More than 200,000 articles: ÇáÚÑÈíÉ Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu ?e?tina ?????? / srpski ÝÇÑÓ? ??? magyar român? suomi Türkçe More than 50,000 articles: ????????? dansk eesti ???????? English (simple) Esperanto euskara galego ????? hrvatski latvie?u lietuvi? norsk nynorsk sloven?ina sloven??ina srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? ??? Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=574690625" Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Simple English ÇáÚÑÈíÉ Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu ????????? Català ?e?tina Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Espa?ol Esperanto Euskara ÝÇÑÓ? Français Galego ??? ????? Hrvatski Italiano ??????? Latvie?u Lietuvi? Magyar Nederlands ??? Norsk bokm?l Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Sloven?ina Sloven??ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Ti?ng Vi?t Türkçe ?????????? ?? This page was last modified on 27 September 2013 at 03:10. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view