Portal:Contents - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Portal:Contents From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Overview Outlines Lists Glossaries Portals Categories Indexes Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Explore Wikipedia's contents Below are pages to help you select subjects to learn about. Contents 1 Explore Wikipedia's contents 2 Overviews 3 Lists 3.1 Alphabetical indexes 3.2 Timelines 4 Featured content 5 News about Wikipedia 6 Spoken articles 7 Wikipedia books 8 Portals 9 Categorical indexes 10 Glossaries 11 Most popular articles Overviews Overview † ó † main articles of various topics Outlines † ó † subject summaries, as follows: Ease of discovery ñ outlines show which topics belong to a subject and why Access to articles ñ outlines serve as tables of contents of Wikipedia List of academic disciplines and sub-disciplines † ó † subjects studied in college or university Lists More topic lists. Some are lists of lists. Lists † ó † of related items Two of the broadest list collections are: Lists of countries and territories and many lists by country Lists of people including by nationality and by occupation Alphabetical indexes Indexes † ó † subject indexes, sorted alphabetically. Complete alphabetical index † ó † pages sorted by the first two letters of the title, e.g., "Aa Ab Ac Ad..." Special:Categories † ó † every category listed alphabetically Timelines Timelines † ó † list articles chronologically. List of centuries List of decades List of historical anniversaries † ó † e.g. events on January 1 of any year 2014 † ó † major events this year Portal:Current events † ó † featured current events and related project activities Deaths in 2013 † ó † lists notable people who died this year Category:Graphical timelines † ó † graphical timelines in the category and subcategories, arranged alphabetically Featured content Featured content is the best Wikipedia has to offer, via vigorous peer review. Presented by type: Featured articles†∑ Featured lists†∑ Featured pictures†∑ Featured portals†∑ Featured sounds†∑ Featured topics News about Wikipedia The Signpost, a community-written and community-edited newspaper, covering stories, events and reports related to Wikipedia, its sister projects, and the Wikimedia Foundation. Spoken articles Growing collections of Wikipedia articles are available as spoken word recordings. Spoken articles†∑ Category:Spoken articles Wikipedia books Wikipedia books are collections of Wikipedia articles that can be viewed, downloaded, or printed into a book. They provide a roadmap for a course of study in a particular subject. Category:Wikipedia books (community books) † ó † alphabetical list of the books Category:Wikipedia books † ó † categorized by topic Portals A portal introduces the reader to a subject by presenting images, categories and excerpts of key articles. Portals also guide editing by providing to-do lists. Portals†∑ Category:Portals Categorical indexes Wikipedia's category system is generated from category tags at the bottom of articles and other pages. The top-level pages are: Categories † ó † an index of major categories, arranged by subject (because this page is crafted by hand, it is an exception to the category autogeneration rule) Category:Articles † ó † the category in which all article category systems are located Category:Wikipedia categories † ó † pages and categories which themselves specifically relate to categories Category:Contents † ó † the highest level or "root" category in Wikipedia † ó † its subcategories contain various types of encyclopedic content, content that assists with the navigation of the encyclopedia, as well as pages related to the maintenance of the encyclopedia † ó † its autogenerated entries are listed at the bottom of the page Category:Fundamental categories † ó † the category containing the most fundamental ontological categories, such that every article category system can reasonably be expected to be within it Wikipedia's other broad categorical indexes are: List of Dewey Decimal classes † ó † top two levels of this library classification system, linked to Wikipedia articles Library of Congress Classification † ó † LCC subjects linked to Wikipedia articles Outline of Roget's Thesaurus † ó † articles organised into a system based on six classes, with thousands of branches, following Roget's system Glossaries Glossaries are lists of terms with definitions. Glossaries†∑ Category:Glossaries Most popular articles Wikipedia:Top 5000 pages (of the last week) Wikitop ñ Top 30 most popular articles by categories Content listings Lists Overviews Outlines Featured content Lists Glossaries Portals Indexes Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Academic disciplines Anniversaries today Countries and territories Current events People deaths this year Timelines centuries decades Indices AñZ index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification Roget's Thesaurus Spoken articles Wikipedia books Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Contents&oldid=586419042" Categories: Content portals Hidden categories: Semi-protected portals Wikipedia move-protected portals Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants Views Read View source View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans «·⁄—»Ì… Arpetan ??????? Bamanankan ????? Cebuano Espa?ol ›«—”? FranÁais ?????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ??????? Magyar ????? Nederlands Occitan Å? Ê Polski PortuguÍs ??????? Shqip ????? Suomi Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarÁa ?????? Xitsonga ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 17 December 2013 at 00:16. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaÆ is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view