Portal:Current events - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Portal:Current events From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Edit instructions Worldwide current events  · Sports events Topics in the news Scientists measure the optical spectrum of ball lightning for the first time. Egypt approves a new constitution. Archaeologists discover the tombs of Sobekhotep I and the previously unknown Abydos Dynasty pharaoh, Seneb Kay. During heavy fighting over Malakal, South Sudan, a Nile ferry carrying refugees sinks, drowning more than 200 people. In association football, Cristiano Ronaldo (pictured) wins the FIFA Ballon d'Or and Nadine Angerer wins the Women's World Player of the Year award. Israeli politician and general Ariel Sharon dies after being in a permanent vegetative state for eight years. Recent deaths: Claudio Abbado – Suchitra Sen – Hiroo Onoda Current events of January 21, 2014 (2014-01-21) (Tuesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Euromaidan Violent clashes occur for a second day between protesters and police in Kiev, the capital of the Ukraine. (BBC) Sport Tour Down Under Simon Gerrans, an Australian cycling star, wins the first stage of Tour Down Under in Adelaide, Australia. (ABC) Current events of January 20, 2014 (2014-01-20) (Monday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks War in North-West Pakistan A suicide bomber blows himself up near Pakistan's military headquarters in Rawalpindi killing at least 13 people. (AP via MyFoxAL) December 2013 Volgograd bombings An Islamist group claims responsibility for the bombings and threatens attacks on the 2014 Winter Olympic Games to be held in Sochi. (Reuters) Euromaidan Violence spreads in Kiev as protesters clash with police. (ABC News) The United Kingdom rejects its involvement in combat drone attacks by the United States in Pakistan. (BBC News) Syrian Civil War: Two car bombs hit a rebel-held post on the Syrian border with Turkey, killing at least 16 people amidst continuing fighting between Turkey-supported rebels and Saudi-supported rebels. (Reuters) Business and economy More than 20 million South Koreans' credit cards are hacked. (BBC News) Trial begins in London over a claim by investment bank JPMorgan that the public transit provider of the city of Berlin owes it more than $204 million. (Reuters) World leaders are meeting in Davos, Switzerland, for the World Economic Forum. (ABC News) China's 2013 economy figures show the slowest rate of growth since 1999. However, the 7.8% growth figure was higher than the predicted number of 7.5%. (The Australian) Disasters A 6.2 magnitude earthquake occurs on the lower North Island of New Zealand near the capital Wellington. (New Zealand Herald) Monsoon rains cause flooding in the Indonesian capital Jakarta causing the evacuation of more than 30,000 people. (Reuters via Trust) A small plane carrying medics makes a forced landing in a remote mountain area in Transylvania, Romania, and is found after a 4 and a half hour massive search. The accident leaves the pilot and a passenger dead with several others being injured. (NewsDaily) International relations The United States rejects the invitation of Iran by the United Nations in peace talks involving Syria. (The New York Times) Certain sanctions against Iran are lifted by the European Union and the United States through a nuclear deal. (The Washington Post) Global surveillance disclosures (2013–present) Mike Rogers accuses Edward Snowden of collaborating with Russia. (BBC News) Kenneth Bae, an American prisoner in North Korea, releases a message to the United States for help. (The Huffington Post) Law and crime Hong Kong arrests an employer for abusing an Indonesian maid which resulted in protests by migrant workers from Indonesia and the Philippines in the Chinese territory. (Fox News) Revenge porn becomes illegal in Israel. (SBS Australia) Police in India are investigating the death of Sunanda Pushkar, wife of Shashi Tharoor, after she had accused her husband of committing adultery with Pakistani journalist Mehr Tarar. (NBC) 30 people are to be executed in Vietnam for smuggling drugs. (BBC News) Politics and elections The transitional National Assembly of the Central African Republic chooses Catherine Samba-Panza as the interim President, making her the country's first female head of state. (Reuters) Bridgegate scandal Kim Guadagno denies accusations that she withheld funds for the victims of Hurricane Sandy. (CBS News) President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe makes his first public appearance in several weeks. (Reuters) Science and technology India launches the Agni-IV missile today. (The Hindu) The Rosetta begins to 'wake up' from hibernation on its mission to rendezvous and land a probe on Comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko. (BBC News) Dolphin hunting in the Japanese town of Taiji is criticized by US Ambassador to Japan Caroline Kennedy after protests by environmental groups. (Japan Daily Press) Sport Jérôme Champagne, a former French diplomat and advisor to multiple football federations, announces his candidacy to become FIFA President in 2015. (The Guardian) The Hong Kong Football Association is fined for not preventing an alleged racist incident against fans of the Philippine national football team in 2013. (Goal.com) Current events of January 19, 2014 (2014-01-19) (Sunday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks War in North-West Pakistan: A bomb attack on an army convoy in the city of Bannu kills at least 20 soldiers. (BBC) 2013–14 Thai political crisis: A blast at an anti-government protest at Victory Monument in Bangkok injures 28 protesters, seven of them seriously. (Melbourne Age) Gaza–Israel conflict: The Israeli Air Force carries out an air strike seriously injuring one Palestinian Islamic Jihad operative in the Gaza Strip and wounding two others. (Jewish Telegraphic Agency) Euromaidan: New violent clashes erupt in Ukraine as a reaction to new strict anti-protest laws. (BBC News) Disasters Residents of the historic Norwegian village of L?rdals?yri are evacuated due to a fire that has destroyed at least 10 homes. (BBC) Politics and elections Voters in Hungary will go to the polls for a parliamentary election on April 6. (AFP via GlobalPost) Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Vice President of the United Arab Emirates announces mandatory military service for males aged 18-30. (ArabianBusiness.com) Sports In the American National Football League, the Denver Broncos and Seattle Seahawks win their respective playoff matches and will meet in Super Bowl XLVIII on February 2. (Q13 Fox), (NWI TImes) Former world number one and 2008 French Open champion Ana Ivanovic defeats reigning world number one, five-time Australian Open champion and tournament favourite Serena Williams in the fourth round of the 2014 Australian Open. (ABC News Australia) Current events of January 18, 2014 (2014-01-18) (Saturday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks An Iranian diplomat is killed in Yemen's capital Sana'a when he resisted gunmen who were trying to kidnap him near the ambassador's residence. (Reuters) Insurgency in the North Caucasus: Seven suspected militants are killed by Russian security forces in a shootout near Makhachkala in Dagestan. (Reuters) Arts and culture 20th Screen Actors Guild Awards The Screen Actors Guild Awards are held with Matthew McConaughey winning Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role for his role in Dallas Buyers Club and Cate Blanchett winning Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role for her role in Blue Jasmine. (Los Angeles Times) 16-year-old Lewis Clarke of Bristol, United Kingdom sets a new world record after becoming the youngest person to trek to the South Pole. (BBC) Law and order A warrant is issued for the arrest of Belden Namah, the Leader of the Opposition in Papua New Guinea over claims he threatened the police commissioner in a letter. (News Limited) An autopsy finds Sunanda Pushkar, the wife of Indian cabinet minister Shashi Tharoor found dead in her hotel room on Friday, had died a "sudden and unnatural death". (BBC) Politics and elections Egyptian constitutional referendum, 2014 Egypt's election council claims that 98.1% of voters supported the new military-backed constitution with a 38.6% turnout. (AP) (AhramOnline) Current events of January 17, 2014 (2014-01-17) (Friday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks 2013–14 Thai political crisis: An explosion rocks the protests in Bangkok resulting in dozens of injuries. (CNN), (AP) At least three people are killed and fifteen are injured after an explosion in a passenger train travelling from Peshawar to Karachi. (PTI via Business Standard) Syrian Civil War spillover in Lebanon: A rocket fired into the Lebanese border town of Arsal kills seven people and wounds 15. (Reuters) Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan: Twenty-one people are killed in a suicide bombing attack on a Kabul restaurant. (The Wall Street Journal) Islamist unrest in Egypt (2013–present): Two people were shot dead as clashes between Muslim Brotherhood supporters and police flared up across Egypt. (Reuters) Arts and culture One of the last Japanese soldiers to surrender from World War II, Hiroo Onoda, who surrendered in the Philippines in 1974, dies at the age of 91. (CNN) Zara Phillips, granddaughter of Queen Elizabeth II gives birth to a daughter. (BBC) President Yoweri Museveni refuses to sign a Ugandan bill that would criminalize homosexuality saying that they should instead be rehabilitated. (The Huffington Post) A fragment of pelvis bone unearthed in Winchester in 1999 may belong to King Alfred the Great or his son Edward the Elder. (BBC) Disasters Bushfires in the Australian state of Victoria claim at least one life with towns in the Grampians National Park region evacuated. (The Australian) Police in in Glendora, California arrest three men suspected of starting the Colby Fire burning in the San Gabriel Mountains. (Los Angeles Times) California Governor Jerry Brown declares a drought emergency and asks residents of the state to voluntarily conserve water. (Los Angeles Times) A stampede at the home of Muslim religious leader Mohammed Burhanuddin in the Indian city of Mumbai results in 18 deaths. (SBS World News) International relations President Barack Obama announces a sprawling reform that would begin the process of change in the National Security Agency. (The Chicago Tribune) Australia apologizes to Indonesia for breaching its territorial waters while conducting operations against people smugglers in Operation Sovereign Borders. (Sydney Morning Herald) Law and crime A controversy regarding capital punishment in the United States erupts after the execution of Ohio killer Denis McGuire took 25 minutes. (BBC) Two students, a male and a female in stable condition, are each shot in the arm by an at-large gunman, who may be a student, at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania's Delaware Valley Charter School high school. (MSN) Sport 2014 Winter Olympics Vladimir Putin cautions gay people should not "spread gay propaganda" when visiting the host city of Sochi. (BBC) Current events of January 16, 2014 (2014-01-16) (Thursday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Gaza–Israel conflict: Five people are injured on the Gaza Strip in an Israel Air Force raid following Palestinian militants firing a rocket towards Ashkelon. (BBC) (The Times of Israel) Syrian Civil War: A suicide bomber kills 4 people and injures 26 in the Lebanese town of Hermel, a Hezbollah stronghold near the Syrian border. (Reuters) Post-Iraq War TMZ reveals photos of United States Marines burning bodies of Iraqis prompting an investigation from the Department of Defense. (CNN) Arts and culture Gravity and American Hustle lead the nominations for the 86th Academy Awards. (Los Angeles Times) The Last of Us leads the nominations for the 17th DICE Awards. (Variety) (Polygon) Disasters and accidents At least 13 people are dead and 40,000 are displaced in Indonesia's North Sulawesi province after severe floods. (AFP via Yahoo! News) 2014 Australian heat wave: Melbourne reaches 43.9 degrees Celsius (110 degrees Fahrenheit) with Australian Open matches postponed. (Reuters) Emergency services authorities warn of high bushfire dangers in southeastern Australia. (New Zealand Stuff) International relations The Guardian reports that the National Security Agency collects data from hundreds of millions of text messages each day. (The Guardian) Law and crime New Dictatorship laws in Ukraine (BBC) A German court in Munich rules that Formula One boss Bernie Ecclestone should face bribery charges. (BBC) A child trafficking ring is smashed in the Philippines through the efforts of British, American, and Australian authorities. (USA Today) Two people are arrested in Delhi after a Danish woman was gang-raped. (Voice of America) According to a search warrant unsealed by a court in Bristol, Connecticut, former New England Patriots tight end Aaron Hernandez, awaiting trial for a 2013 murder, is under investigation by Boston police as a suspect in a 2012 double homicide. (AP via ESPN) Politics and elections 2013-14 Thai political crisis Yingluck Shinawatra is being implicated in a controversial rice subsidy scheme. (BBC) Technology A British photographer designs and builds a drone as a low cost alternative for shooting nature documentaries. (Reuters) Current events of January 15, 2014 (2014-01-15) (Wednesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Iraqi insurgency (post-U.S. withdrawal) At least 26 people are killed in a series of attacks in central Iraq. (BBC) Internal conflict in Burma: A Thailand-based women's rights group accuses Myanmar of using rape as a weapon of war. (Reuters) Syrian Civil War: Western and Arab countries pledge to give an additional US$1.4 billion for United Nations aid. (Reuters) Arts and culture The United States returns 11th-12th century sculptures stolen by art thieves from temples in India. (BBC) Business and economy The World Bank says that the economies affected by the Great Recession are starting to recover. (The Guardian) Disasters and accidents Asiana Airlines Flight 214: A graphic video showing the death of a 16-year old Chinese girl is released after firefighters ran her over in the wake of the plane crash. (TIME) Law and crime An anti-LGBT rights law that makes gay marriage punishable by up to 14 years in prison is passed in Nigeria. (Voice of America) Italy says that it will use the Italian Army against the mafia who are accused of dumping toxic waste in Naples. (BBC) A Danish tourist is gang-raped in Delhi, India after she was lost from her hotel. (The New York Times) The National Security Agency uses radio waves to spy on computers. (The New York Times) Politics and elections Egyptian constitutional referendum, 2014: Egyptians vote on a constitution that will ban political parties based on religion, give women equal rights and protect the status of minority Coptic Christians. (Fox News) 2013–14 Thai political crisis: Thai protesters continue to shutdown Bangkok in order to force Yingluck to step down. (Australia Network News) Science and technology Australia warns of bushfires due to a 40C (104F) heatwave affecting the country. (BBC) More January 2014 events... Time: 08:24 UTC  |  Day: 21 January  |  Purge << January 2014 >> S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31    More January 2014 events... edit this box    About this page • Suggest a headline News about Wikipedia  Ongoing events Economic Great Recession Eurozone crisis Greek government-debt crisis Environmental 2014 North Indian Ocean cyclone season 2014 Pacific typhoon season Political Global surveillance disclosures Pro-EU protests in Ukraine (2013–present) South Sudan conflict (2013–present) Thailand political crisis (2013–present) More details on ongoing conflicts below edit sidebar  Recent deaths January 20: Claudio Abbado 20: Otis G. Pike 19: Christopher Chataway 19: Steven Fromholz 19: Bert Williams 18: Komla Dumor 18: Dennis Frederiksen 17: Mohammed Burhanuddin 17: Lord McAlpine of West Green 17: John J. McGinty III 17: Suchitra Sen 16: Ruth Duccini 16: Russell Johnson 16: Dave Madden 16: Hiroo Onoda 16: José Sulaim?n 15: Curtis Bray 15: John Dobson 15: Roger Lloyd-Pack 14: Juan Gelman 14: Mae Young 13: Anjali Devi 12: Neal Barrett, Jr. 12: Alexandra Bastedo 12: John Button 12: Halet ?ambel 11: Chai Trong-rong 11: Vugar Gashimov 11: Ariel Sharon 10: Zbigniew Messner 10: Donald Morton 10: Ian Redford 10: Larry Speakes 9: Amiri Baraka 9: Roy Campbell, Jr. 9: Josep Maria Castellet 9: Lorella De Luca 9: Luis Garc?a 9: Dale T. Mortensen 8: Edward N. Ney 7: Run Run Shaw 6: Aitzaz Hasan 6: Larry D. Mann 6: M?nica Spear 5: Jerry Coleman 5: Eusébio 5: Simon Hoggart 5: Rod Searle 3: Phil Everly 3: Alicia Rhett 3: Saul Zaentz 2: Elizabeth Jane Howard 1: Pete DeCoursey 1: Michael Glennon 1: Patrick Karegeya 1: Juanita Moore edit sidebar  Ongoing conflicts Global War on Drugs War on Terror Operation Active Endeavour Operation Enduring Freedom Terrorist incidents in 2014 Africa Lord's Resistance Army insurgency Maghreb insurgency OEF – Horn of Africa OEF – Trans Sahara Central African Republic Civil conflict Egypt Islamist protests Sinai insurgency Libya Post-civil war interfactional fighting Nigeria Niger Delta conflict Islamist insurgency in Nigeria Somalia Civil war Sudan and South Sudan Sudan internal conflict South Sudan internal conflict Americas Colombian conflict Mexican Drug War Asia Afghanistan War Military operations Taliban insurgency India Naxalite–Maoist insurgency Philippines Communist insurgency Moro insurgency Korea Korean maritime border conflict Pakistan Balochistan conflict North-West War Sectarian violence Southeast Asia Cambodian–Thai border dispute Kachin conflict Papua conflict South Thailand insurgency Territorial disputes in the South China Sea Europe Dissident Irish Republican campaign North Caucasus insurgency War in Ingushetia Middle East Arab–Israeli conflict Gaza–Israel conflict Israeli–Lebanese conflict Israeli–Palestinian conflict Israel–Iran proxy conflict Iraqi insurgency Kurdistan Kurdish–Iranian conflict Syrian Civil War Yemen al-Qaeda crackdown Shia insurgency South Yemen insurgency edit sidebar  Elections Recent: December 1: Croatia, Constitutional referendum 15: Chile, Presidential (2nd round) 15: Mali, Parliament (2nd round) 15: Turkmenistan, Parliament 20: Madagascar, President (2nd round) and parliament 21: Mauritania, Parliament (2nd round) Recent: January 5: Bangladesh, General 14–15: Egypt, Constitutional referendum 20: Central African Republic, President edit sidebar  Trials Recently concluded Canada: Michael Thomas Rafferty China: Bo Xilai Croatia: Ivo Sanader Germany: Breno Borges Indonesia: Abu Bakar Bashir Italy: Silvio Berlusconi Netherlands: Ante Gotovina (ICTY), Mladen Marka? (ICTY), Mom?ilo Peri?i? (ICTY) Norway: Anders Behring Breivik Russia: Leonid Khabarov, Vladimir Kvachkov, Pussy Riot Sierra Leone: Charles Taylor (SCFSL) South Africa: Chris Mahlangu Ukraine: Yulia Tymoshenko United Kingdom: Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale, Levi Bellfield, Robert Black, Vincent Tabak, Ali Dizaei, Antoni Imiela, Brian Regan, Donna Air, Ched Evans, Clayton McDonald, Titus Bramble, Dan Penteado, John Terry, Iftikhar and Farzana Ahmed, Asil Nadir, Justin Lee Collins, Kweku Adoboli, Tony McCluskie, Kevin Hutchinson-Foster, Chris Huhne, Nicola Edgington, Vicky Pryce, Derek Rose, Mick Philpott, Mairead Philpott, Paul Mosley, Kevin Liverpool, Junior Bradshaw, Aggro Santos, Stuart Hall, Stuart Hazell, Mark Bridger, Andrew Lancel, Dale Cregan, Ray Wilkins, Michael Le Vell, Liam Adams, R v Grillo and Grillo, Ian Watkins United States: Noshir Gowadia, Buju Banton, Barry Bonds, Raj Rajaratnam, Casey Anthony, Conrad Murray, George Huguely, Allen Stanford, Roger Clemens, Jerry Sandusky, Jared Lee Loughner, Lauryn Hill, Kermit Gosnell, George Zimmerman, Chelsea Manning, Ariel Castro, Whitey Bulger, Robert Bales, Nidal Malik Hasan, Crystal Mangum Ongoing Brazil: Mensal?o scandal Cambodia: Khmer Rouge Tribunal Canada: Luka Magnotta China: Organized crime in Chongqing Egypt: Mohamed Morsi, Hosni Mubarak France: Church of Scientology Germany: Christian Wulff, Beate Zsch?pe Hong Kong: Alfredo Lim Iraq: Supreme Criminal Tribunal Malaysia: Anwar Ibrahim Netherlands: Thomas Lubanga (ICC), Radovan Karad?i? (ICTY), Ratko Mladic (ICTY) Palau: Tommy Remengesau Philippines: Andal Ampatuan, Jr., Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, Jinggoy Estrada, Gregorio Honasan, Janet Lim-Napoles, Ferdinand Marcos, Jr., Nur Misuari, Manny Pacquiao, Jovito Palparan, Juan Ponce Enrile, Bong Revilla Russia: Platon Lebedev Sudan: Lubna al-Hussein Thailand: Thaksin Shinawatra Turkey: Ergenekon network, Kenan Evren United Kingdom: Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson, William Roache, Eddy Shah, Koo Stark, Dave Lee Travis United States: Jodi Arias Upcoming France: ?ric Raoult Germany: Bernie Ecclestone Ivory Coast: Laurent Gbagbo Jordan: Abu Qatada Libya: Saif al-Islam Gaddafi South Africa: Oscar Pistorius United Kingdom: Dane Bowers, Max Clifford, Rolf Harris, Nicholas Jacobs, Neville Neville United States: Paul Anthony Ciancia, Javaris Crittenton, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Peter Madoff, Christian Gerhartsreiter, Dylan Quick, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, James Eagan Holmes, Aaron Hernandez, Graham Spanier, Tim Curley, Gary Schultz, Anas al-Libi edit sidebar Events by month 2014 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2013 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2012 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2011 January February March April May June July August September October November December Content listings Lists Overviews Outlines Featured content Lists Glossaries Portals Indexes Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Academic disciplines Anniversaries today Countries and territories Current events People deaths this year Timelines centuries decades Indices A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification Roget's Thesaurus Spoken articles Wikipedia books Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events&oldid=587658750" Categories: 2014 by day 2014 Current events Hidden categories: Wikipedia pages protected against vandalism Wikipedia protected pages without expiry Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants Views Read View source View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?nglisc ÇáÚÑÈíÉ Aragonés Asturianu ????? Bân-lâm-g? ?????????? (???????????)ý Bikol Central ????????? Català ??????? Cebuano ?e?tina Dansk ???????? Espa?ol Esperanto Estreme?u Euskara E?egbe ÝÇÑÓ? Français Gaeilge Galego ?? ??????? ??? ??????? ?????? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua ???? ??????? ??????? Kurdî Latina Lëtzebuergesch Limburgs ?????? ????? ãÇÒöÑæä? Bahasa Melayu Baso Minangkabau ?????? Dorerin Naoero Nederlands Nedersaksies ?????? ????? ???? ??? Napulitano ??????? Occitan O?zbekcha ????????? Piemontèis Polski Português Român? ??????? Shqip Sicilianu Soomaaliga ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Basa Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarça ??? ?????????? ÇÑÏæ Veps?n kel’ Ti?ng Vi?t Walon ?? ?? ?????? ?? Zeêuws ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 25 December 2013 at 19:45. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view