Help:Contents - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Help:Contents From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search See below for assistance with the most common questions, or search the help pages using the form on the right. †Help †Wikipedia I want info about browsing or searching The Readers' FAQ and our "About" page contain the most commonly sought information about Wikipedia. There is a search box in the upper-right corner of every page with the word "Search" in it. Just type what you are looking for in there and then press ? Enter. See Help:Searching for more details. There are other ways to browse and explore Wikipedia articles, many can be found at Portal:Contents. I want to edit Wikipedia Contributing is easy: see how to edit a page. For a quick summary on participating, see the Plain and simple guide. The Cheatsheet will remind you of basic wiki markup. You can practice editing and experiment in a sandbox. Be†bold in improving articles! When adding facts, please provide references so others may verify them. If you are affiliated with the article subject, please see our conflict of interest guideline. If you're looking for places you can help out, the Community portal is the place to go. I want to report a problem with an article If you spot a problem with an article, you can fix it directly, by clicking on the "Edit" link at the top of that page. See the "I want to edit Wikipedia" section of this page for more information. If you don't feel ready or qualified to fix the article yourself, please post a message on the article's talk page. This will bring the matter to the attention of others who work on that article. There is a "Talk" link at the top of every article. Alternatively you can contact us. If it's an article about you or your organization, see Contact us - Subjects. I want to create a new article or upload media Check Your first article to see if your topic is appropriate, then the Article wizard will walk you through creating the article. Once you've created an article, see Writing better articles for guidance on how to improve it and what to include (like reference citations). For contributing images, audio, or video files, see the Introduction to uploading images. Then the Upload†wizard will guide you through that process. I have a factual question If searching Wikipedia has not answered your question (for example, questions like "Which country has the world's largest fishing fleet?"), try the Reference Desk. Volunteers there will attempt to answer your questions on any topic, or point you towards the information you need. I'm stuck For your convenience, answers have been recorded for the most frequently asked questions. You can find also where to ask questions or make comments. You can ask questions about using Wikipedia at the Help desk or the Teahouse. Volunteers will respond as soon as possible. Or ask for help on your talk page, and a volunteer will visit you there! You can get live help with editing in the help chatroom. Find and directly contact an actively editing user at Highly Active Users. I'm looking for help with something specific Use the Search Help box at the top right of this page. For comprehensive help page listings, start with the menu at Help:Contents/Browse. For a directory that shows the help systems, see Help:Contents/Directory. For a list of the services and assistance that can be requested on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Requests. If you are looking for an operational page, see Wikipedia:Department directory. Wikipedia:Quick directory lists key locations of interest around Wikipedia. The blue bar below is a navigation box showing many of the help pages. Click "show" on the right to expand it. v t e Wikipedia help pages Teahouse (new editor interactive help) Help desk (interactive Q & A) About Wikipedia Principles Wikipedia in brief Policies & guidelines What Wikipedia is not General disclaimer Advice for parents Contact Wikipedia Where to ask questions Where to make requests Who writes Wikipedia Why create an account About contributing A plain & simple overview A primer for newcomers Newcomers help Advice for young editors Avoiding common mistakes Contributing to Wikipedia How to help Etiquette Community expectations Learning the ropes Simplified Manual of Style Simplified rule-set Ignore all rules The rules are principles Reason-ability rule Tip of the day Your first article Article wizard Vandalism Introductions Editing Exploring Images Manual of Style Media Navigating Policies Sourcing Tables Talk pages Tutorials (Newcomers) Editing Formatting Graphics Images IRC (live chat) Links Policies Registration Sources Talk pages Frequently asked questions (Overview) Administration Article subjects Categories Contributing Copyright Editing Forking IRC (live chat) Miscellaneous Organizations Problems Researching Readers Schools Technical Help contents (Help menu) Navigating Joining Editing Links & references Images & media Tracking changes Policies & guidelines Asking questions The community Resources & lists Account settings Technical info (Site map) Missing manual Introduction First edit Sourcing Account setup & personal space Creating articles Page history & reverting Monitoring changes Vandalism & spam Communicating with others WikiProjects Content disputes Incivility Helping others Sections Lists & tables Images Naming, redirects & disambiguation Categorizing Better articles Deletions Personal preferences JavaScript Wikipedia Pages Readerís guide Learning more How-to pages Appealing blocks Article deletion Image deletion Books Categories Citations (references) Referencing for beginners Citation Style Cite errors References Copyright Diff Editing Edit toolbar Edit conflict Email confirmation Find sources Files Footnotes Glossary Infobox List Linking Link color Logging in Magic words Media Merging Mobile access Navigation Other languages Page name Redirect Rename Password Reverting Searching Section Talk pages Students URL User contributions Coding wiki markup Wiki markup Cheat-sheet Barchart Calculations Characters Citation templates Columns HTML Music symbols Sounds Tables Introduction to tables Templates Documentation Visual files Wiki tools Reference desks Computing Entertainment Humanities Language Mathematics Science Miscellaneous Noticeboards Administrators Edit warring Incidents Vandalism Conflict of interest Disputes Editor help External links Neutrality Original research Sources Page moves Village pump Policy Proposals Technical Idea lab Miscellaneous Wikipedia books Wikipedia Be wise FAQ Help pages Manual of Style Missing manual Policies & Guidelines Wiki how to Directories Abbreviations Departments Editor's index Essays FAQ Glossary Guidelines Help Manual of Style Policies Tips If you place {{Help me}} then your question on a talk page, preferably your talk page, a volunteer will assist you there! Shortcuts to this page: WP:HELP ï WP:H ï H:H Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help:Contents&oldid=589001927" Categories: Help Wikipedia help contents Hidden categories: Semi-protected project pages Wikipedia move-protected project pages Article Feedback Blacklist Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Help page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans Alemannisch ???? ?nglisc «·⁄—»Ì… AragonÈs ????? ??????? Asturianu Ava?e'? Aymar aru Az?rbaycanca ????? Bahasa Banjar B‚n-l‚m-g? Basa Banyumasan ????????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)˝ Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Catal‡ ??????? Cebuano ?e?tina Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch DinÈ bizaad Dolnoserbski ????? Eesti ???????? Emili‡n e rumagn?l Espa?ol Esperanto Euskara ›«—”? F?royskt FranÁais Frysk Gaeilge G‡idhlig Galego ??? Hausa ??????? ?????? Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Ido Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua ???? ?slenska Italiano ????? Basa Jawa Kalaallisut ????? ??????? ??????? Kernowek Kiswahili KurdÓ ???????? Ladino ??? Latina Latvie?u LÎtzebuergesch Lietuvi? Limburgs Ling?la Lumbaart Magyar ?????????? ?????? Malti M?ori ????? „’—Ï Bahasa Melayu Baso Minangkabau ?????? ?????????? Nederlands Nedersaksies ?????? ????? ???? ??? Napulitano ??????? Norsk bokm?l Norsk nynorsk Occitan O?zbekcha ?????? ????????? PiemontËis Plattd¸¸tsch Polski PortuguÍs Ripoarisch Rom‚n? Rumantsch Runa Simi ??????? ???? ???? S?megiella ????????? Scots Seeltersk Shqip Sicilianu ????? Simple English Sloven?ina Sloven??ina ?l?nski Soomaaliga òÊ—œ? ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Basa Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarÁa ?????? ??? ?????? Lea faka-Tonga T¸rkÁe Twi ?? ???? ?????????? «—œÊ ∆?Ì€?—ç? / Uyghurche VËneto Ti?ng Vi?t Volap¸k V?ro Walon ?? West-Vlams ?????? ?? Zazaki ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 3 January 2014 at 17:12. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaÆ is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view