Wikipedia:Community portal - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Wikipedia:Community portal From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Shortcuts: WP:COM WP:COMM WP:COMPORT Welcome! The Community portal is a place to find collaborations, tasks, and news about English Wikipedia. To find other internal project pages of interest, see the department directory. New to Wikipedia? See the Help page for everything you need to know to get started. Interact more Help desk Reference desk Village pump Peer editing help WikiProjects Barnstars Dispute resolution Help out You can help improve the articles listed below! This list updates frequently, so check back here for more tasks to try. Fix spelling and grammar ï Learn how Snowtown murders Hydraulic motor Battle of Smolenice Kannazuki no Miko Dungan revolt (1862ñ77) More... Fix wikilinks ï Learn how The Lost Shepherd Radial Force Variation Self-amalgamating tape Joseph Alphonse de VÈri Philanthrojournalism More... Remove unsourced material ï Learn how XCOPY Deep Web Cartoonito Masakatsu Funaki Kroch's and Brentano's More... Expand short articles ï Learn how Onychogryphosis Roger Morgan (designer) SeaChanger Color Engine Bastard color Hapalonychia More... Check and add references ï Learn how Three Friends of Winter Maltodextrin Earl of Mornington Ammonia Baron Lilford More... Update with new information ï Learn how Grand Rapids (Amtrak station) Internal conflict in Peru Economy of Slovenia Mount Airy, North Carolina Revenge (TV series) More... Improve lead sections ï Learn how Teleport Communications Group Nazism in Sweden Julia Voth Exhaust brake UK miners' strike (1984ñ1985) More... Add an image ï Learn how Goldbeater's skin Garda hitch Guy R. Gregg Giant Gippsland earthworm Glass knife More... Translate and clean up ï Learn how Toma T. Socolescu Suzuki Splash Porto Ferreira Ant?nio Bag?o FÈlix Eiji Kawashima More... Community bulletin board Bulletins Quick directory Directory Maintenance Requests Shortcuts Tools Index Shortcuts: WP:CBB WP:WASSUP 15 January 2014 † Op-ed: Licensed for reuse? Citing open-access sources in Wikipedia articles News and notes: Wikimedia Germany asks for "reworking" of Funds Dissemination Committee; should MP4 be allowed on Wikimedia sites? In the media: Is Google hurting Wikipedia traffic?; "Wikipedia-Mania" in the New York Times WikiProject report: WikiProject Sociology Traffic report: The Hours are Ours Technology report: Architecture Summit schedule published Single page Book Front page About Subscribe Suggestions Archives Centralized discussion An RfC on creating a speedy deletion criterion for pages in violation of WP:NOTWEBHOST. An RfC to approve a bot adding stress marks to Russian words. An RfC to establish criteria for use of Pending Changes level 2. Closers are invited to sign up in advance. An RfC on requiring QPQ for Did You Know nominations of pages created by other editors. An RfC on making the guideline on signatures a formal policy. An alternative idea to make orphan tags invisible in the mainspace, rather than move them to the talk page. An RfC on how MOS:YEAR should be applied to sports year ranges: 2010/2011 vs. 2010/11 or 2010-11 vs. 2010-2011 depending on length of season. Should Wikipedia provide a more prominent disclaimer in general, or on health and medical content? An RfC on the use(s) of the summary-style template main and its allies. A general discussion for purposes of a periodic review of the username policy and enforcement of same. General notices Projects seeking help Also consider posting WikiProject, Task Force, and Collaboration news at the Signpost's WikiProject Report page. WikiProjects and Task Forces Outlines What's going on with outlines: New outlines (please copyedit and expand): Outline of Nova Scotia Outlines being overhauled (your help is needed): Outline of Sweden (expansion) Portal report The following portals are in need of attention/upkeep: Portal:Space ñ the selected article excerpts were copied and pasted between 2006 and 2009. The leads of the corresponding articles have greatly improved since then. Portal:Azerbaijan ñ news section has reports from 2009. Portal:Thinking ñ "selected" sections need new material. Been the same for years. The following portals have interesting design features that you may find useful: Portal:Philosophy ñ cycles through 52 "Selected philosophers", one per week, automatically year after year. Portal:Arts ñ uses random generators to display random featured status selections. Discussions and collaborations This week's article for improvement is: Nordic art An animal-head post found in the Oseberg vikingship, an example of Nordic art Please be bold and help to improve this article! view talk edit Discussions in the following areas have requested wider attention: Biographies Economy and trade History and geography Language and linguistics Media, the arts, and architecture Politics, government, and law Religion and philosophy Science and mathematics Society, sports, and culture Wikipedia policies and guidelines Wikipedia style and naming WikiProjects and collaborations Wikipedia technical issues and templates Wikipedia proposals Unsorted See also: Dashboard News Goings-on Milestones Meetups In the media Mailing lists Here is a list of the main community pages of Wikipedia's sister projects. All of these projects are multilingual and open-content. Meta-Wiki†ñ Coordination of all Wikimedia projects. Wiktionary†ñ A collaborative multilingual dictionary. Wikinews†ñ News stories written by readers. Wikibooks†ñ A collection of collaborative non-fiction books. Wikiquote†ñ A compendium of referenced quotations. Wikisource†ñ A repository for free source texts. Wikispecies†ñ A directory of species. Wikiversity†ñ Where teachers learn, and learners teach. Wikivoyage†ñ A world-wide travel guide. Wikidata†ñ A free knowledge base that can be read and edited by humans and machines alike. Commons†ñ Repository for free images and other media files. Motto of the day... ì ? How alive is thought, invisible, yet without thought there is no sight. î Nominate one! Tip of the day... Displaying tips on your userpage In case you would like to display the tip of the day on your userpage, you have several options to choose from... Edit your userpage and insert one or more of the following strings: {{totd}} - the main version of the tip of the day template, with border, centered in the middle of the page. Complete with inspirational lightbulb. {{totd b}} - a more compact version of the above template. Useful for columns. {{totd-tomorrow}} - this shows tomorrow's tip, and is used for proofreading tips before they go live. If you would like to help monitor tips for accuracy before the rest of the Wikipedia community reads them, please put this on your user page or talk page. Thank you. {{totd-random}} - this is the tip of the moment template, which automatically displays a different tip every time you enter a page it is on (to a maximum of one time per minute). If it doesn't update, try clearing your browser cache. {{Tip of the day}} - the borderless version, with lightbulb. {{Tip of the day with h3 heading}} - borderless, in article format with level 3 heading. (No lightbulb). {{totd3}} - a purple box version, useful for displaying the tip in columns. Read more: Wikipedia:Tip of the day Prior tip - Next tip To add this auto-updating template to your user page, use {{totd}}. Become a Wikipedia tipster Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Community_portal&oldid=591283814" Categories: Wikipedia administration Wikipedia basic information Wikipedia discussion Wikipedia directories Wikipedia news Wikipedia noticeboards Wikipedia portals Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Project page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans Alemannisch ?nglisc «·⁄—»Ì… AragonÈs Arm?neashce ??????? Asturianu Ava?e'? Aymar aru Az?rbaycanca ????? B‚n-l‚m-g? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)˝ ????????? Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Catal‡ ??????? ?e?tina Chamoru Corsu Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch ?????????? ????? Eesti ???????? ?????? Esperanto Euskara ›«—”? F?royskt FranÁais Frysk Gaeilge Gaelg G‡idhlig Galego ?????? ??? ?????? Ido Igbo Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Interlingue I?upiak IsiXhosa ?slenska Italiano ????? Basa Jawa Kalaallisut ??????? KaszÎbsczi ??????? Kernowek Kinyarwanda ???? Kongo KurdÓ Ladino ????? ????? Latina LÎtzebuergesch Lietuvi? Magyar ?????????? Malagasy ?????? M?ori ????? Bahasa Melayu Baso Minangkabau ??????? ?????????? Dorerin Naoero Na Vosa Vakaviti Nederlands Nedersaksies N?hiyaw?win / ??????? ????? ???? ??? Napulitano ??????? Nordfriisk Norsk bokm?l Norsk nynorsk Occitan P?lzisch Å? Ê Plattd¸¸tsch Polski PortuguÍs Rom‚n? Runa Simi ??????? S?megiella Sardu Scots Setswana Sicilianu ????? Simple English Sloven?ina Sloven??ina Soomaaliga òÊ—œ? ?????? / srpski Basa Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarÁa ??? Tshivenda T¸rkÁe ?????????? Vahcuengh Veps?n kelí Ti?ng Vi?t Volap¸k ?? West-Vlams Xitsonga ?????? Yor˘b? ?? Zazaki ?emait??ka ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 18 January 2014 at 15:54. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaÆ is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view