Communication - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Communication From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia ††(Redirected from Communications) Jump to: navigation, search For other uses, see Communication (disambiguation). "Communicate" redirects here. For other uses, see Communicate (disambiguation). Communication (from Latin comm?nic?re, meaning "to share" [1]) is the activity of conveying information through the exchange of thoughts, messages, or information, as by speech, visuals, signals, writing, or behavior. It is the meaningful exchange of information between two or more living creatures. One definition of communication is ìany act by which one person gives to or receives from another person information about that person's needs, desires, perceptions, knowledge, or affective states. Communication may be intentional or unintentional, may involve conventional or unconventional signals, may take linguistic or non-linguistic forms, and may occur through spoken or other modes.î [2] Communication requires a sender, a message, and a recipient, although the receiver doesn't have to be present or aware of the sender's intent to communicate at the time of communication; thus communication can occur across vast distances in time and space. Communication requires that the communicating parties share an area of communicative commonality. The communication process is complete once the receiver understands the sender's message.[citation needed] Communicating with others involves three primary steps:[3] Thought: First, information exists in the mind of the sender. This can be a concept, idea, information, or feelings. Encoding: Next, a message is sent to a receiver in words or other symbols. Decoding: Lastly, the receiver translates the words or symbols into a concept or information that a person can understand. There are a variety of verbal and non-verbal forms of communication. These include body language, eye contact, sign language, haptic communication,and chronemics. Other examples are media content such as pictures, graphics, sound, and writing. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also defines the communication to include the display of text, Braille, tactile communication, large print, accessible multimedia, as well as written and plain language, human-reader, augmentative and alternative modes, means and formats of communication, including accessible information and communication technology.[4] Feedback is a critical component of effective communication. Contents 1 Verbal communication 2 Nonverbal communication 3 Oral communication 4 Business communication 5 Written communication and its historical development 6 Effective communication 7 Barriers to effective human communication 7.1 Physical barriers 7.2 System design 7.3 Attitudinal barriers 7.4 Ambiguity of words/phrases 7.5 Individual linguistic ability 7.6 Physiological barriers 7.7 Presentation of information 8 Nonhuman communication 8.1 Animal communication 8.2 Plants and fungi 8.3 Bacteria quorum sensing 9 Communication cycle 10 Communication noise 10.1 Environmental noise 10.2 Physiological-impairment noise 10.3 Semantic noise 10.4 Syntactical noise 10.5 Organizational noise 10.6 Cultural noise 10.7 Psychological noise 11 Communication as academic discipline 12 See also 13 References 14 Further reading Verbal communication[edit] Main article: Human communication Human spoken and pictorial languages can be described as a system of symbols (sometimes known as lexemes) and the grammars (rules) by which the symbols are manipulated. The word "language" also refers to common properties of languages. Language learning normally occurs most intensively during human childhood. Most of the thousands of human languages use patterns of sound or gesture for symbols which enable communication with others around them. Languages seem to share certain properties although many of these include exceptions. There is no defined line between a language and a dialect. Constructed languages such as Esperanto, programming languages, and various mathematical formalisms are not necessarily restricted to the properties shared by human languages. Communication is the flow or exchange of information within people or a group of people. Nonverbal communication[edit] Main article: Nonverbal communication Nonverbal communication describes the process of conveying meaning in the form of non-word messages. Some forms of non verbal communication include chronemics, haptics, gesture, body language or posture, facial expression and eye contact, object communication such as clothing, hairstyles, architecture, symbols, infographics, and tone of voice, as well as through an aggregate of the above. Speech also contains nonverbal elements known as paralanguage. These include voice lesson quality, emotion and speaking style as well as prosodic features such as rhythm, intonation and stress. Research has shown that up to 55% of human communication may occur through non verbal facial expressions, and a further 38% through paralanguage.[5] Likewise, written texts include nonverbal elements such as handwriting style, spatial arrangement of words and the use of emoticons to convey emotional expressions in pictorial form. Oral communication[edit] Oral communication, while primarily referring to spoken verbal communication, can also employ visual aids and non-verbal elements to support the conveyance of meaning. Oral communication includes speeches, presentations, discussions, and aspects of interpersonal communication. As a type of face-to-face communication, body language and choice tonality play a significant role, and may have a greater impact upon the listener than informational content. This type of communication also garners immediate feedback. Business communication[edit] Main article: Business communication A business can flourish only when all objectives of the organization are achieved effectively. For efficiency in an organization, all the people of the organization must be able to convey their message properly.[citation needed] Written communication and its historical development[edit] Over time the forms of and ideas about communication have evolved through the continuing progression of technology. Advances include communications psychology and media psychology, an emerging field of study. The progression of written communication can be divided into three "information communication revolutions":[6] Written communication first emerged through the use of pictographs. The pictograms were made in stone, hence written communication was not yet mobile. The next step occurred when writing began to appear on paper, papyrus, clay, wax, etc. with common alphabets. Communication became mobile. The final stage is characterized by the transfer of information through controlled waves of electromagnetic radiation (i.e., radio, microwave, infrared) and other electronic signals. Communication is thus a process by which meaning is assigned and conveyed in an attempt to create shared understanding. This process, which requires a vast repertoire of skills in interpersonal processing, listening, observing, speaking, questioning, analyzing, gestures, and evaluating enables collaboration and cooperation.[7] Misunderstandings can be anticipated and solved through formulations, questions and answers, paraphrasing, examples, and stories of strategic talk. Written communication can be clarified by planning follow-up talks on critical written communication as part of the every-day way of doing business. A few minutes spent talking in the present will save valuable time later by avoiding misunderstandings in advance. A frequent method for this purpose is reiterating what one heard in one's own words and asking the other person if that really was what was meant.[8] Effective communication[edit] Effective communication occurs when a desired effect is the result of intentional or unintentional information sharing, which is interpreted between multiple entities and acted on in a desired way. This effect also ensures the messages are not distorted during the communication process. Effective communication should generate the desired effect and maintain the effect, with the potential to increase the effect of the message. Therefore, effective communication serves the purpose for which it was planned or designed. Possible purposes might be to elicit change, generate action, create understanding, inform or communicate a certain idea or point of view. When the desired effect is not achieved, factors such as barriers to communication are explored, with the intention being to discover how the communication has been ineffective. Barriers to effective human communication[edit] Barriers to effective communication can retard or distort the message and intention of the message being conveyed which may result in failure of the communication process or an effect that is undesirable. These include filtering, selective perception, information overload, emotions, language, silence, communication apprehension, gender differences and political correctness [9] This also includes a lack of expressing "knowledge-appropriate" communication, which occurs when a person uses ambiguous or complex legal words, medical jargon, or descriptions of a situation or environment that is not understood by the recipient. Physical barriers[edit] Physical barriers are often due to the nature of the environment. An example of this is the natural barrier which exists if staff are located in different buildings or on different sites. Likewise, poor or outdated equipment, particularly the failure of management to introduce new technology, may also cause problems. Staff shortages are another factor which frequently causes communication difficulties for an organization. While distractions like background noise, poor lighting or an environment which is too hot or cold can all affect people's morale and concentration, which in turn interfere with effective communication. System design[edit] System design faults refer to problems with the structures or systems in place in an organization. Examples might include an organizational structure which is unclear and therefore makes it confusing to know whom to communicate with. Other examples could be inefficient or inappropriate information systems, a lack of supervision or training, and a lack of clarity in roles and responsibilities which can lead to staff being uncertain about what is expected of them. Attitudinal barriers[edit] Attitudinal barriers come about as a result of problems with staff in an organization. These may be brought about, for example, by such factors as poor management, lack of consultation with employees, personality conflicts which can result in people delaying or refusing to communicate, the personal attitudes of individual employees which may be due to lack of motivation or dissatisfaction at work, brought about by insufficient training to enable them to carry out particular tasks, or just resistance to change due to entrenched attitudes and ideas.[citation needed] Ambiguity of words/phrases[edit] Words sounding the same but having different meaning can convey a different meaning altogether. Hence the communicator must ensure that the receiver receives the same meaning. It is better if such words are avoided by using alternatives whenever possible. Individual linguistic ability[edit] The use of jargon, difficult or inappropriate words in communication can prevent the recipients from understanding the message. Poorly explained or misunderstood messages can also result in confusion. However, research in communication has shown that confusion can lend legitimacy to research when persuasion fails.[10][11] Physiological barriers[edit] These may result from individuals' personal discomfort, causedófor exampleóby ill health, poor eyesight or hearing difficulties. Presentation of information[edit] Presentation of information is important to aid understanding. Simply put, the communicator must consider the audience before making the presentation itself and in cases where it is not possible the presenter can at least try to simplify his/her vocabulary so that the majority can understand. Nonhuman communication[edit] See also: Biocommunication (science)†and Interspecies communication Every information exchange between living organisms ó i.e. transmission of signals that involve a living sender and receiver can be considered a form of communication; and even primitive creatures such as corals are competent to communicate. Nonhuman communication also include cell signaling, cellular communication, and chemical transmissions between primitive organisms like bacteria and within the plant and fungal kingdoms. Animal communication[edit] The broad field of animal communication encompasses most of the issues in ethology. Animal communication can be defined as any behavior of one animal that affects the current or future behavior of another animal. The study of animal communication, called zoo semiotics (distinguishable from anthroposemiotics, the study of human communication) has played an important part in the development of ethology, sociobiology, and the study of animal cognition. Animal communication, and indeed the understanding of the animal world in general, is a rapidly growing field, and even in the 21st century so far, a great share of prior understanding related to diverse fields such as personal symbolic name use, animal emotions, animal culture and learning, and even sexual conduct, long thought to be well understood, has been revolutionized. Plants and fungi[edit] Communication is observed within the plant organism, i.e. within plant cells and between plant cells, between plants of the same or related species, and between plants and non-plant organisms, especially in the root zone. Plant roots communicate in parallel with rhizome bacteria, with fungi and with insects in the soil. These parallel sign-mediated interactions are governed by syntactic, pragmatic, and semantic rules, and are possible because of the decentralized "nervous system" of plants. The original meaning of the word "neuron" in Greek is "vegetable fiber" and recent research has shown that most of the microorganism plant communication processes are neuronal-like.[12] Plants also communicate via volatiles when exposed to herbivory attack behavior, thus warning neighboring plants. In parallel they produce other volatiles to attract parasites which attack these herbivores. In stress situations plants can overwrite the genomes they inherited from their parents and revert to that of their grand- or great-grandparents.[citation needed] Fungi communicate to coordinate and organize their growth and development such as the formation of Marcelia and fruiting bodies. Fungi communicate with their own and related species as well as with non fungal organisms in a great variety of symbiotic interactions, especially with bacteria, unicellular eukaryote, plants and insects through biochemicals of biotic origin. The biochemicals trigger the fungal organism to react in a specific manner, while if the same chemical molecules are not part of biotic messages, they do not trigger the fungal organism to react. This implies that fungal organisms can differentiate between molecules taking part in biotic messages and similar molecules being irrelevant in the situation. So far five different primary signalling molecules are known to coordinate different behavioral patterns such as filamentation, mating, growth, and pathogenicity. Behavioral coordination and production of signaling substances is achieved through interpretation processes that enables the organism to differ between self or non-self, a biotic indicator, biotic message from similar, related, or non-related species, and even filter out "noise", i.e. similar molecules without biotic content.[citation needed] Bacteria quorum sensing[edit] Communication is not a tool used only by humans, plants and animals, but it is also used by microorganisms like bacteria. The process is called quorum sensing. Through quorum sensing, bacteria are able to sense the density of cells, and regulate gene expression accordingly. This can be seen in both gram positive and gram negative bacteria. This was first observed by Fuqua et al. in marine microorganisms like V. harveyi and V. fischeri.[13] Communication cycle[edit] Main article: Models of communication Shannon and Weaver Model of Communication Communication major dimensions scheme Interactional Model of Communication Berlo's Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver Model of Communication Transactional Model of Communication Communication code scheme Linear Communication Model The first major model for communication was introduced by Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver for Bell Laboratories in 1949[14] The original model was designed to mirror the functioning of radio and telephone technologies. Their initial model consisted of three primary parts: sender, channel, and receiver. The sender was the part of a telephone a person spoke into, the channel was the telephone itself, and the receiver was the part of the phone where one could hear the other person. Shannon and Weaver also recognized that often there is static that interferes with one listening to a telephone conversation, which they deemed noise. In a simple model, often referred to as the transmission model or standard view of communication, information or content (e.g. a message in natural language) is sent in some form (as spoken language) from an emisor/ sender/ encoder to a destination/ receiver/ decoder. This common conception of communication simply views communication as a means of sending and receiving information. The strengths of this model are simplicity, generality, and quantifiability. Social scientists Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver structured this model based on the following elements: An information source, which produces a message. A transmitter, which encodes the message into signals A channel, to which signals are adapted for transmission A receiver, which 'decodes' (reconstructs) the message from the signal. A destination, where the message arrives. Shannon and Weaver argued that there were three levels of problems for communication within this theory. The technical problem: how accurately can the message be transmitted? The semantic problem: how precisely is the meaning 'conveyed'? The effectiveness problem: how effectively does the received meaning affect behavior? Daniel Chandler[15] critiques the transmission model by stating: It assumes communicators are isolated individuals. No allowance for differing purposes. No allowance for differing interpretations. No allowance for unequal power relations. No allowance for situational contexts. In 1960, David Berlo expanded on Shannon and Weaver's (1949) linear model of communication and created the SMCR Model of Communication.[16] The Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver Model of communication separated the model into clear parts and has been expanded upon by other scholars. Communication is usually described along a few major dimensions: Message (what type of things are communicated), source / emisor / sender / encoder (by whom), form (in which form), channel (through which medium), destination / receiver / target / decoder (to whom), and Receiver. Wilbur Schram (1954) also indicated that we should also examine the impact that a message has (both desired and undesired) on the target of the message.[17] Between parties, communication includes acts that confer knowledge and experiences, give advice and commands, and ask questions. These acts may take many forms, in one of the various manners of communication. The form depends on the abilities of the group communicating. Together, communication content and form make messages that are sent towards a destination. The target can be oneself, another person or being, another entity (such as a corporation or group of beings). Communication can be seen as processes of information transmission governed by three levels of semiotic rules: Pragmatic (concerned with the relations between signs/expressions and their users) Semantic (study of relationships between signs and symbols and what they represent) and Syntactic (formal properties of signs and symbols). Therefore, communication is social interaction where at least two interacting agents share a common set of signs and a common set of semiotic rules. This commonly held rule in some sense ignores autocommunication, including intrapersonal communication via diaries or self-talk, both secondary phenomena that followed the primary acquisition of communicative competences within social interactions. In light of these weaknesses, Barnlund (2008) proposed a transactional model of communication.[18] The basic premise of the transactional model of communication is that individuals are simultaneously engaging in the sending and receiving of messages. In a slightly more complex form a sender and a receiver are linked reciprocally. This second attitude of communication, referred to as the constitutive model or constructionist view, focuses on how an individual communicates as the determining factor of the way the message will be interpreted. Communication is viewed as a conduit; a passage in which information travels from one individual to another and this information becomes separate from the communication itself. A particular instance of communication is called a speech act. The sender's personal filters and the receiver's personal filters may vary depending upon different regional traditions, cultures, or gender; which may alter the intended meaning of message contents. In the presence of "communication noise" on the transmission channel (air, in this case), reception and decoding of content may be faulty, and thus the speech act may not achieve the desired effect. One problem with this encode-transmit-receive-decode model is that the processes of encoding and decoding imply that the sender and receiver each possess something that functions as a codebook, and that these two code books are, at the very least, similar if not identical. Although something like code books is implied by the model, they are nowhere represented in the model, which creates many conceptual difficulties. Theories of coregulation describe communication as a creative and dynamic continuous process, rather than a discrete exchange of information. Canadian media scholar Harold Innis had the theory that people use different types of media to communicate and which one they choose to use will offer different possibilities for the shape and durability of society (Wark, McKenzie 1997). His famous example of this is using ancient Egypt and looking at the ways they built themselves out of media with very different properties stone and papyrus. Papyrus is what he called 'Space Binding'. it made possible the transmission of written orders across space, empires and enables the waging of distant military campaigns and colonial administration. The other is stone and 'Time Binding', through the construction of temples and the pyramids can sustain their authority generation to generation, through this media they can change and shape communication in their society (Wark, McKenzie 1997). Communication noise[edit] In any communication model, noise is interference with the decoding of messages sent over a channel by an encoder. There are many examples of noise: Environmental noise[edit] Noise that physically disrupts communication, such as standing next to loud speakers at a party, or the noise from a construction site next to a classroom making it difficult to hear the professor. Physiological-impairment noise[edit] Physical maladies that prevent effective communication, such as actual deafness or blindness preventing messages from being received as they were intended. Semantic noise[edit] Different interpretations of the meanings of certain words. For example, the word "weed" can be interpreted as an undesirable plant in a yard, or as a euphemism for marijuana. Syntactical noise[edit] Mistakes in grammar can disrupt communication, such as abrupt changes in verb tense during a sentence. Organizational noise[edit] Poorly structured communication can prevent the receiver from accurate interpretation. For example, unclear and badly stated directions can make the receiver even more lost. Cultural noise[edit] Stereotypical assumptions can cause misunderstandings, such as unintentionally offending a non-Christian person by wishing them a "Merry Christmas". Psychological noise[edit] Certain attitudes can also make communication difficult. For instance, great anger or sadness may cause someone to lose focus on the present moment. Disorders such as Autism may also severely hamper effective communication.[19] Communication as academic discipline[edit] Main article: Communication studies See also[edit] Media portal Sociology portal Technology portal Advice Augmentative and alternative communication Data communication Ishin-denshin Sign system Small talk SPEAKING Telecommunication Telepathy References[edit] ^ Harper, Douglas. "communication". Online Etymology Dictionary. Retrieved 2013-06-23.† ^ de Valenzuela, Julia Scherba. (1992). American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA): Guidelines for Meeting the Communication Needs of Persons With Severe Disabilities ^ Donald Clark. "Communication and Leadership". Retrieved 14 December 2013.† ^ Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Article 2, Definition ^ Mehrabian, A. (1972). Nonverbal communication. Transaction Publishers. ^ Xin Li. "Complexity Theory - the Holy Grail of 21st Century". Lane Dept of CSEE, West Virginia University.† ^ "communication". The office of superintendent of Public Instruction. Washington.† Missing or empty |url= (help) ^ Heyman, Richard. Why Didn't You Say That in the First Place? How to Be Understood at Work. ^ Robbins, S., Judge, T., Millett, B., & Boyle, M. (2011). Organisational Behaviour. 6th ed. Pearson, French's Forest, NSW p315-317. ^ What Should Be Included in a Project Plan - Retrieved December 18th, 2009 ^ J. Scott Armstrong (1980). "Bafflegab Pays". Psychology Today: 12.† ^ Baluska, F.; Marcuso, Stefano; Volkmann, Dieter (2006). Communication in plants: neuronal aspects of plant life. Taylor & Francis US. p.†19. ISBN†3-540-28475-3. "...the emergence of plant neurobiology as the most recent area of plant sciences."† ^ Anand, Sandhya. Quorum Sensing- Communication Plan For Microbes. Article dated 2010-12-28, retrieved on 2012-04-03. ^ Shannon, C. E., & Weaver, W. (1949). The mathematical theory of communication. Urbana, Illinois: University of Illinois Press ^ Daniel Chandler, "The Transmission Model of Communication", Aber.ac.uk ^ Berlo, D. K. (1960). The process of communication. New York, New York: Holt, Rinehart, & Winston. ^ Schramm, W. (1954). How communication works. In W. Schramm (Ed.), The process and effects of communication (pp. 3ñ26). Urbana, Illinois: University of Illinois Press. ^ Barnlund, D. C. (2008). A transactional model of communication. In. C. D. Mortensen (Eds.), Communication theory (2nd ed., pp47-57). New Brunswick, New Jersey: Transaction. ^ Roy M. Berko, et al., Communicating. 11th ed. (Boston, MA: Pearson Education, Inc., 2010) 9-12 Further reading[edit] Innis, Harold. Empire and Communications. Rev. by Mary Q. Innis; foreword by Marshall McLuhan. Toronto, Ont.: University of Toronto Press, 1972. xii, 184 p. N.B.: "Here he [i.e. Innis] develops his theory that the history of empires is determined to a large extent by their means of communication."óFrom the back cover of the book's pbk. ed. ISBN 0-8020-6119-2 pbk Library resources about communication Resources in your library Wikimedia Commons has media related to Communication. Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Communication v t e Human intelligence topics Types Collective intelligence Emotional intelligence Linguistic intelligence Spatial intelligence Abilities, traits and constructs Abstract thought Cognition Communication Creativity Fluid and crystallized intelligence g factor Intelligence quotient Knowledge Learning Memory Problem solving Reasoning Thought Understanding Visual processing Models and theories CattellñHornñCarroll theory Fluid and crystallized intelligence Theory of multiple intelligences Three stratum theory Triarchic theory of intelligence PASS theory of intelligence Areas of research Environment and intelligence Evolution of human intelligence Fertility and intelligence Psychometrics Health and intelligence Height and intelligence Heritability of IQ Longevity and intelligence Nations and intelligence Neuroscience and intelligence Race and intelligence Religiosity and intelligence General reference Outline of human intelligence Outline of thought v t e Communication studies Terms and topics Biocommunication Broadcasting Business communication Communication Computer-mediated communication Conversation History of communication Information Intercultural†/ Interpersonal†/ Intrapersonal communication Mass media Meaning Media ecology Meta-communication Models of communication New media Nonverbal communication Propaganda Speech Symbol Telecommunication Text and conversation theory Subfields Communication design Communication sciences Communication theory Crisis communication Cross-cultural communication Development communication Discourse analysis Environmental communication Health communication International communication Mass communication Media studies Mediated cross-border communication Organizational communication Political communication Risk communication Science communication Technical communication Visual communication Related fields Conversation analysis Critical theory Cultural studies Digital rhetoric Film criticism Heritage interpretation Journalism photojournalism Linguistics Philosophy of language Political science Pragmatics Public relations Rhetoric Semiotics Sociolinguistics Sociology of culture Theater Scholars Adorno Barthes Bateson Benjamin Burke Castells Chomsky Craig Fisher Gerbner Habermas Horkheimer Huxley Innis Jakobson Janis Johnson Kincaid Lippman Luhmann Marcuse Mead McLuhan Morgan Ong Packard Peirce Postman Quebral Richard Rogers Schramm Tankard Tannen Wertheimer Category History Journals Organizations Outline Scholars Templates Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Communication&oldid=591538682" Categories: Communication Communication theory Hidden categories: Pages using web citations with no URL All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from July 2012 Articles with unsourced statements from September 2012 Articles with unsourced statements from December 2013 Articles with unsourced statements from December 2012 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2013 Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ???? «·⁄—»Ì… AragonÈs Asturianu Bamanankan ????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)˝ ????????? Bosanski Brezhoneg Catal‡ ??????? ?e?tina Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Espa?ol Esperanto Euskara ›«—”? FranÁais Furlan Gaeilge Gaelg G‡idhlig Galego ??????? ??? ??????? ?????? Hrvatski Ido Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua ??????/inuktitut ?slenska Italiano ????? Basa Jawa Kalaallisut ????? ??????? ??????? Kiswahili Krey?l ayisyen ???????? Latga?u Latina Latvie?u LÎtzebuergesch Lietuvi? Limburgs Magyar ?????????? ?????? Bahasa Melayu MirandÈs ?????? Nederlands ?????? ??? ??????? Norsk bokm?l Norsk nynorsk Occitan O?zbekcha Å‰Ã«»? ????????? Polski PortuguÍs Qaraqalpaqsha Rom‚n? Rumantsch ?????????? ??????? ???? ???? Scots Shqip Sicilianu ????? Simple English Sloven??ina òÊ—œ? Sranantongo ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Basa Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ?????? ??? T¸rkÁe ?????????? «—œÊ VËneto Ti?ng Vi?t Winaray ?????? ?? ?emait??ka ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 20 January 2014 at 09:16. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaÆ is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view