Museology - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Museology From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. The neutrality of this article is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until the dispute is resolved. (January 2014) This article is written like a personal reflection or opinion essay rather than an encyclopedic description of the subject. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (January 2014) The Enlightenment Room of the British Museum, restored to show the Age of Enlightenment conception of a museum. Museology, or museum studies, is the study of museums, museum curation, and how museums developed into their institutional role in education through social and political forces.[1] Contents 1 Overview 2 Conception of museums 3 Insufficient support 4 Tourism as a vehicle for success 5 Museum media as a mode of communication 6 Artifacts as primary sources 7 See also 8 References 8.1 Bibliography 9 External links Overview[edit] Museum displays are given meaning and purpose by the context in which they are created and how they are showcased; museology endeavours to discover the catalysts that support the growth of these associations and their success through such efficiencies. The scope of research goes beyond superficial terms, delving further into topics such as audiences to which exhibits are directed, responsibilities encountered by way of function, as well as some deliberation as to possible futures as an institution. The difficulties that are faced by historians and curators to produce a product that appeals to a varied public and can withstand criticism stimulates ongoing research. Conception of museums[edit] Public museums were created to replace private collections by displaying collected works where the general public could profit from a shared experience.[2] The study of art, artifacts, and every object imaginable was to become more accessible to everyone, a means of discovery and wonder. In origin, the idea dates back to classical times, but publicly funded foundations can only be traced back a few hundred years.[1] The curiosity cabinet is the earliest form of a museum in Western civilization.(Museum Origins: Readings in Early Museum History and Philosophy (2008) by Hugh H Genoways and Mary Anne Andrei) Insufficient support[edit] Reasons why this specific scholarly perspective of review has been overlooked may be directly linked with a lack of priority and due to more pressing financial circumstances such as funding and managing collections.[3] These being more practical issues that take precedence have caused a slower infiltration into the mainstream and left many disenchanted with it as a whole. Also, the theme itself is inherently correlated with not just conversation but debate often leaving the subject at a standstill and experts unsatisfied as so much of it relies on theory instead of hard evidence. Tourism as a vehicle for success[edit] Museums, as a result of competition and the growing tourism market, face a constant identity crisis and must always remain current in an economy that privileges experiences, immediacy, and what the industry calls adventure.[4] But the booming market plays two roles in the lives of museums and museology. In recent years, there has been tremendous growth in the museum population worldwide; the opportunity created by tourism has left the two intimately linked, but as their relationship grows, so too do concerns as to how to cope with public criticism.[4] A larger audience for museums begs understanding in how to satisfy needs and expectations; museology takes into consideration and studies those public demands and build theories as to why they work and how to duplicate them. Museum media as a mode of communication[edit] Museums are the quintessential institutions which use ‘medium’ and ‘message’ as an identical thought through material and the tangible.[5] Museology seeks to understand and develop proficient exhibits which engage the audience by way of looking at the past and truly grasping techniques and displays that are productive and how they can be adapted to changing societies and utilized to effectively educate and stir interest, awareness, or curiosity. Both form and function become sources to be analysed as they allow greater comprehension of an audience’s overall reception of a message. In establishing continuity between museum and media, popular culture and tourism, museology has taken a transdisciplinary approach broadening discussions and utilizing a wider scope of methodology to explain the inevitable changes which occur.[6] Artifacts as primary sources[edit] Because the framework of museums lie in material objects as primary sources, historians recognize inherent issues, problematic to the ‘truth’ which they seek to unfold and have been forced to adapt their tactics when drawing information out; this has led to tremendous efforts to borrow from other disciplines.[7] Museology itself has been vital to recognizing this issue and extracting resources from discussions in an effort to resolve concerns such as this which form the structure of its research. See also[edit] Museum education Museum informatics References[edit] ^ a b Vergo (1989), p. 1. ^ Vergo (1989), p. 2. ^ Merriman (1999), p. 2. ^ a b Witcomb (2003), p. 13. ^ Hooper-Greenhill (1995), p. 1. ^ Witcomb (2003), p. 12. ^ Kavanagh (1996), p. 1. Bibliography[edit] Hooper-Greenhill, Eilean (1995). "Museums and communication: an introductory essay". In Eilean Hooper-Greenhill. Museum, Media, Message 1995. London: Routledge. pp. 1–12. ISBN 978-0-415-11672-5.  Kavanagh, Gaynor (1996). "Making Histories, Making Memories". In Gaynor Kavanagh. Making Histories in Museums 1996. London: Leicester University Press. pp. 1–14. ISBN 978-0-8264-7926-6.  Merriman, Nick (1999). "Introduction". In Nick Merriman. Making Early Histories in Museums 1999. London: Leicester University Press. pp. 1–11. ISBN 978-0-7185-0110-5.  Vergo, Peter (1989). "Introduction,". In Peter Vergo. The New Museology. London: Reaktion Books. pp. 1–5.  Witcomb, Andrea (2003). Re-Imagining the Museum: Beyond the Mausoleum. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-203-36102-3.  External links[edit] BMUSE Museology Bibliography Museology Master of Arts Program, University of Washington Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Museology&oldid=589369176" Categories: Museology Museologists Hidden categories: NPOV disputes from January 2014 All NPOV disputes Wikipedia articles needing style editing from January 2014 All articles needing style editing Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ÇáÚÑÈíÉ ?????????? Català ?e?tina Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Espa?ol Esperanto Français ?????? Hrvatski Italiano Lietuvi? ?????????? Nederlands ??? Norsk bokm?l Polski Português Român? ??????? Sloven?ina Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ????? ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t Winaray ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 6 January 2014 at 00:24. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view