Privacy - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Privacy From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search For other uses, see Privacy (disambiguation). The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. Please improve this article and discuss the issue on the talk page. (June 2011) Privacy (from Latin: privatus "separated from the rest, deprived of something, esp. office, participation in the government", from privo "to deprive") is the ability of an individual or group to seclude themselves or information about themselves and thereby reveal themselves selectively. The boundaries and content of what is considered private differ among cultures and individuals, but share basic common themes. Privacy is sometimes related to anonymity, the wish to remain unnoticed or unidentified in the public realm. When something is private to a person, it usually means there is something within them that is considered inherently special or personally sensitive. The degree to which private information is exposed therefore depends on how the public will receive this information, which differs between places and over time. Privacy partially intersects security, including for instance the concepts of appropriate use, as well as protection of information. Privacy may also take the form of bodily integrity. The right not to be subjected to unsanctioned invasion of privacy by the government, corporations or individuals is part of many countries' privacy laws, and in some cases, constitutions. Almost all countries have laws which in some way limit privacy; an example of this would be law concerning taxation, which normally require the sharing of information about personal income or earnings. In some countries individual privacy may conflict with freedom of speech laws and some laws may require public disclosure of information which would be considered private in other countries and cultures. Privacy may be voluntarily sacrificed, normally in exchange for perceived benefits and very often with specific dangers and losses, although this is a very strategic view of human relationships. Academics who are economists, evolutionary theorists, and research psychologists[who?] describe revealing privacy as a 'voluntary sacrifice'[citation needed], for instance by willing participants in sweepstakes or competitions. In the business world, a person may volunteer personal details (often for advertising purposes) in order to gamble on winning a prize. Personal information which is voluntarily shared but subsequently stolen or misused can lead to identity theft. The concept of universal individual privacy is a modern construct associated with Western culture, English and North American in particular, and remained virtually unknown in some cultures until recent times. According to some researchers, this concept sets Anglo-American culture apart even from Western European cultures such as French or Italian.[1] Most cultures, however, recognize the ability of individuals to withhold certain parts of their personal information from wider society - a figleaf over the genitals being an ancient example. The word "privacy" is an example of an untranslatable lexeme,[2] and many languages do not have a specific word for "privacy". Such languages either use a complex description to translate the term (such as Russian combining the meaning of ????????? - solitude, ??????????? - secrecy, and ??????? ????? - private life) or borrow from English "privacy" (as Indonesian Privasi or Italian la privacy).[2] Contents 1 Types of privacy 1.1 Personal privacy 1.2 Informational 1.3 Organizational 1.4 Spiritual and intellectual 2 History of privacy 2.1 Privacy and technology 2.2 Privacy and the Internet 3 "Right to privacy" 3.1 Definitions 3.2 An individual "right" 3.3 A collective value and a human right 4 Privacy protection 4.1 Free market versus consumer protection approaches 4.2 Privacy law 4.3 Privacy on the Internet 4.4 Privacy and location-based services 4.5 Privacy by design 4.6 Privacy self-synchronization 5 See also 6 References 7 Further reading 8 External links Types of privacy[edit] The term "privacy" means many things in different contexts. Different people, cultures, and nations have a wide variety of expectations about how much privacy a person is entitled to or what constitutes an invasion of privacy. Personal privacy[edit] Most people have a strong sense of privacy in relation to the exposure of their body to others. This is an aspect of personal modesty. A person will go to extreme lengths to protect this personal modesty, the main way being the wearing of clothes. Other ways include erection of walls, fences, screens, use of cathedral glass, partitions, by maintaining a distance, beside other ways. People who go to those lengths expect that their privacy will be respected by others. At the same time, people are prepared to expose themselves in acts of physical intimacy, but these are confined to exposure in circumstances and of persons of their choosing. Even a discussion of those circumstances is regarded as intrusive and typically unwelcome. Physical privacy could be defined as preventing "intrusions into one's physical space or solitude."[3] This would include such concerns as: preventing intimate acts or hiding one's body from others for the purpose of modesty; apart from being dressed this can be achieved by walls, fences, privacy screens, cathedral glass, partitions between urinals, by being far away from others, on a bed by a bed sheet or a blanket, when changing clothes by a towel, etc.; to what extent these measures also prevent acts being heard varies video, of aptly named graphic, or intimate, acts, behaviors or body parts preventing unwelcome searching of one's personal possessions preventing unauthorized access to one's home or vehicle medical privacy, the right to make fundamental medical decisions without governmental coercion or third party review, most widely applied to questions of contraception An example of the legal basis for the right to physical privacy is the US Fourth Amendment which guarantees "the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures".[4] Most countries have laws regarding trespassing and property rights also determine the right of physical privacy. Physical privacy may be a matter of cultural sensitivity, personal dignity, and/or shyness. There may also be concerns about safety, if for example one is wary of becoming the victim of crime or stalking.[5] Civil inattention is a process whereby individuals are able to maintain their privacy within a crowd. Informational[edit] Main article: Information privacy Information or data privacy refers to the evolving relationship between technology and the legal right to, or public expectation of, privacy in the collection and sharing of data about one's self. Privacy concerns exist wherever uniquely identifiable data relating to a person or persons are collected and stored, in digital form or otherwise. In some cases these concerns refer to how data is collected, stored, and associated. In other cases the issue is who is given access to information. Other issues include whether an individual has any ownership rights to data about them, and/or the right to view, verify, and challenge that information. Various types of personal information are often associated with privacy concerns. For various reasons, individuals may object to personal information such as their religion, sexual orientation, political affiliations, or personal activities being revealed, perhaps to avoid discrimination, personal embarrassment, or damage to their professional reputations. Financial privacy, in which information about a person's financial transactions is guarded, is important for the avoidance of fraud including identity theft. Information about a person's purchases, for instance, can reveal a great deal about their preferences, places they have visited, their contacts, products (such as medications) they use, their activities and habits etc. Internet privacy is the ability to determine what information one reveals or withholds about oneself over the Internet, who has access to such information, and for what purposes one's information may or may not be used. For example, web users may be concerned to discover that many of the web sites which they visit collect, store, and possibly share personally identifiable information about them. Similarly, Internet email users generally consider their emails to be private and hence would be concerned if their email was being accessed, read, stored or forwarded by third parties without their consent. Tools used to protect privacy on the Internet include encryption tools and anonymizing services like I2P and Tor. Medical privacy allows a person to withhold their medical records and other information from others, perhaps because of fears that it might affect their insurance coverage or employment, or to avoid the embarrassment caused by revealing medical conditions or treatments. Medical information could also reveal other aspects of one's personal life, such as sexual preferences or proclivity. A right to sexual privacy enables individuals to acquire and use contraceptives without family, community or legal sanctions. Political privacy has been a concern since voting systems emerged in ancient times. The secret ballot helps to ensure that voters cannot be coerced into voting in certain ways, since they can allocate their vote as they wish in the privacy and security of the voting booth while maintaining the anonymity of the vote. Secret ballots are nearly universal in modern democracy, and considered a basic right of citizenship, despite the difficulties that they cause (for example the inability to trace votes back to the corresponding voters increases the risk of someone stuffing additional fraudulent votes into the system: additional security controls are needed to minimize such risks). Corporate privacy refers to the privacy rights of corporate actors like senior executives of large, publicly traded corporations.[6] Desires for corporate privacy can frequently raise issues with obligations for public disclosures under securities and corporate law.[6] Organizational[edit] Governments agencies, corporations, groups/societies and other organizations may desire to keep their activities or secrets from being revealed to other organizations or individuals, adopting various security practices and controls in order to keep private information confidential.[7] Organizations may seek legal protection for their secrets. For example, a government administration may be able to invoke executive privilege[8] or declares certain information to be classified, or a corporation might attempt to protect valuable proprietary information as trade secrets.[4] Spiritual and intellectual[edit] The earliest legislative development of privacy rights began under British common law, which protected "only the physical interference of life and property." Its development from then on became "one of the most significant chapters in the history of privacy law."[9] Privacy rights gradually expanded to include a "recognition of man's spiritual nature, of his feelings and his intellect."[9] Eventually, the scope of those rights broadened even further to include a basic "right to be let alone", and the former definition of "property" would then comprise "every form of possession -- intangible, as well as tangible." By the late 19th century, interest in a "right to privacy" grew as a response to the growth of print media, especially newspapers.[9] History of privacy[edit] Further information: Privacy laws of the United States Privacy and technology[edit] Advertisement for dial telephone service available to delegates to the 1912 Republican convention in Chicago. A major selling point of dial telephone service was that it was "secret", in that no operator was required to connect the call. As technology has advanced, the way in which privacy is protected and violated has changed with it. In the case of some technologies, such as the printing press or the Internet, the increased ability to share information can lead to new ways in which privacy can be breached.[7] It is generally agreed that the first publication advocating privacy in the United States was the article by Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis, "The Right to Privacy", 4 Harvard Law Review 193 (1890), that was written largely in response to the increase in newspapers and photographs made possible by printing technologies.[10][11] New technologies can also create new ways to gather private information. For example, in the United States it was thought that heat sensors intended to be used to find marijuana-growing operations would be acceptable. However in 2001 in Kyllo v. United States (533 U.S. 27) it was decided that the use of thermal imaging devices that can reveal previously unknown information without a warrant does indeed constitute a violation of privacy.[12] Generally the increased ability to gather and send information has had negative implications for retaining privacy. As large-scale information systems become more common, there is so much information stored in many databases worldwide that an individual has no practical means of knowing of or controlling all of the information about themselves that others may have hold or access. Such information could potentially be sold to others for profit and/or be used for purposes not known to or sanctioned by the individual concerned. The concept of information privacy has become more significant as more systems controlling more information appear. Also the consequences of privacy violations can be more severe. Privacy law in many countries has had to adapt to changes in technology in order to address these issues and, to some extent, maintain privacy rights. But the existing global privacy rights framework has also been criticized as incoherent and inefficient. Proposals such as the APEC Privacy Framework have emerged which set out to provide the first comprehensive legal framework on the issue of global data privacy. Privacy and the Internet[edit] Main article: Internet privacy The Internet has brought new concerns about privacy in an age where computers can permanently store records of everything: "where every online photo, status update, Twitter post and blog entry by and about us can be stored forever", writes law professor and author Jeffrey Rosen.[13] This currently has an effect on employment. Microsoft reports that 75 percent of U.S. recruiters and human-resource professionals now do online research about candidates, often using information provided by search engines, social-networking sites, photo/video-sharing sites, personal web sites and blogs, and Twitter. They also report that 70 percent of U.S. recruiters have rejected candidates based on internet information. This has created a need by many to control various online privacy settings in addition to controlling their online reputations, both of which have led to legal suits against various sites and employers.[13] The ability to do online inquiries about individuals has expanded dramatically over the last decade. Facebook for example, as of July 2010, was the largest social-networking site, with nearly 500 million members, or 22 percent of all Internet users, who upload over 25 billion pieces of content each month. Twitter has more than 100 million registered users. The Library of Congress recently announced that it will be acquiring—and permanently storing—the entire archive of public Twitter posts since 2006, reports Rosen.[13] Importantly, directly observed behaviour, such as browsing logs, search queries, or contents of the Facebook profile can be automatically processed to infer secondary information about an individual, such as sexual orientation, political and religious views, race, substance use, intelligence, and personality.[14][15] Effectively, individual views and preferences can be revealed even if they were not directly expressed or indicated (e.g. by stating their political views on their Facebook profile, or visiting a gay community website). According to some experts, many commonly used communication devices may be mapping every move of their users. Senator Al Franken has noted the seriousness of iPhones and iPads having the ability to record and store users' locations in unencrypted files,[16] although Apple denied doing so.[17] Andrew Grove, co-founder and former CEO of Intel Corporation, offered his thoughts on internet privacy in an interview in 2000:[18] Privacy is one of the biggest problems in this new electronic age. At the heart of the Internet culture is a force that wants to find out everything about you. And once it has found out everything about you and two hundred million others, that's a very valuable asset, and people will be tempted to trade and do commerce with that asset. This wasn't the information that people were thinking of when they called this the information age. "Right to privacy"[edit] Main article: Right to privacy Privacy uses the theory of natural rights, and generally responds to new information and communication technologies. In North America, Samuel D. Warren and Louis D. Brandeis wrote that privacy is the "right to be let alone" (Warren & Brandeis, 1890) focuses on protecting individuals. This citation was a response to recent technological developments, such as photography, and sensationalist journalism, also known as yellow journalism.[19] Privacy rights are inherently intertwined with information technology. In his widely cited dissenting opinion in Olmstead v. United States (1928), Brandeis relied on thoughts he developed in his Harvard Law Review article in 1890. But in his dissent, he now changed the focus whereby he urged making personal privacy matters more relevant to constitutional law, going so far as saying "the government [was] identified .... as a potential privacy invader." He writes, "Discovery and invention have made it possible for the Government, by means far more effective than stretching upon the rack, to obtain disclosure in court of what is whispered in the closet." At that time, telephones were often community assets, with shared party lines and the potentially nosey human operators. By the time of Katz, in 1967, telephones had become personal devices with lines not shared across homes and switching was electro-mechanical. In the 1970s, new computing and recording technologies began to raise concerns about privacy, resulting in the Fair Information Practice Principles. Definitions[edit] In recent years there have been only few attempts to clearly and precisely define a "right to privacy." Some experts assert that in fact the right to privacy "should not be defined as a separate legal right" at all. By their reasoning, existing laws relating to privacy in general should be sufficient.[20] Other experts, such as Dean Prosser, have attempted, but failed, to find a "common ground" between the leading kinds of privacy cases in the court system, at least to formulate a definition.[20] One law school treatise from Israel, however, on the subject of "privacy in the digital environment", suggests that the "right to privacy should be seen as an independent right that deserves legal protection in itself." It has therefore proposed a working definition for a "right to privacy": The right to privacy is our right to keep a domain around us, which includes all those things that are part of us, such as our body, home, property, thoughts, feelings, secrets and identity. The right to privacy gives us the ability to choose which parts in this domain can be accessed by others, and to control the extent, manner and timing of the use of those parts we choose to disclose.[20] An individual "right"[edit] Alan Westin believes that new technologies alter the balance between privacy and disclosure, and that privacy rights may limit government surveillance to protect democratic processes. Westin defines privacy as "the claim of individuals, groups, or institutions to determine for themselves when, how, and to what extent information about them is communicated to others". Westin describes four states of privacy: solitude, intimacy, anonymity, reserve. These states must balance participation against norms: Each individual is continually engaged in a personal adjustment process in which he balances the desire for privacy with the desire for disclosure and communication of himself to others, in light of the environmental conditions and social norms set by the society in which he lives. - Alan Westin, Privacy and Freedom, 1968[21] Under liberal democratic systems, privacy creates a space separate from political life, and allows personal autonomy, while ensuring democratic freedoms of association and expression. David Flaherty believes networked computer databases pose threats to privacy. He develops 'data protection' as an aspect of privacy, which involves "the collection, use, and dissemination of personal information". This concept forms the foundation for fair information practices used by governments globally. Flaherty forwards an idea of privacy as information control, "[i]ndividuals want to be left alone and to exercise some control over how information about them is used".[22] Richard Posner and Lawrence Lessig focus on the economic aspects of personal information control. Posner criticizes privacy for concealing information, which reduces market efficiency. For Posner, employment is selling oneself in the labour market, which he believes is like selling a product. Any 'defect' in the 'product' that is not reported is fraud.[23] For Lessig, privacy breaches online can be regulated through code and law. Lessig claims "the protection of privacy would be stronger if people conceived of the right as a property right", and that "individuals should be able to control information about themselves".[24] Economic approaches to privacy make communal conceptions of privacy difficult to maintain. A collective value and a human right[edit] There have been attempts to reframe privacy as a fundamental human right, whose social value is an essential component in the functioning of democratic societies.[25] Amitai Etzioni suggests a communitarian approach to privacy. This requires a shared moral culture for establishing social order.[26] Etzioni believes that "[p]rivacy is merely one good among many others",[27] and that technological effects depend on community accountability and oversight (ibid). He claims that privacy laws only increase government surveillance by weakening informal social controls.[28] Furthermore, the government is no longer the only or even principle threat to people's privacy. Etzioni notes that corporate data miners, or "Privacy Merchants," stand to profit by selling massive dossiers personal information, including purchasing decisions and Internet traffic, to the highest bidder. And while some might not find collection of private information objectionable when it is only used commercially by the private sector, the information these corporations amass and process is also available to the government, so that it is no longer possible to protect privacy by only curbing the State.[29] Priscilla Regan believes that individual concepts of privacy have failed philosophically and in policy. She supports a social value of privacy with three dimensions: shared perceptions, public values, and collective components. Shared ideas about privacy allows freedom of conscience and diversity in thought. Public values guarantee democratic participation, including freedoms of speech and association, and limits government power. Collective elements describe privacy as collective good that cannot be divided. Regan's goal is to strengthen privacy claims in policy making: "if we did recognize the collective or public-good value of privacy, as well as the common and public value of privacy, those advocating privacy protections would have a stronger basis upon which to argue for its protection".[30] Leslie Regan Shade argues that the human right to privacy is necessary for meaningful democratic participation, and ensures human dignity and autonomy. Privacy depends on norms for how information is distributed, and if this is appropriate. Violations of privacy depend on context. The human right to privacy has precedent in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights: "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers."[31] Shade believes that privacy must be approached from a people-centered perspective, and not through the marketplace.[32] Privacy protection[edit] Privacy International 2007 privacy ranking green: Protections and safeguards red: Endemic surveillance societies Free market versus consumer protection approaches[edit] Approaches to privacy can, broadly, be divided into two categories: free market, and consumer protection.[33] In a free market approach, commercial entities are largely allowed to do what they wish, with the expectation that consumers will choose to do business with corporations that respect their privacy to a desired degree. If some companies are not sufficiently respectful of privacy, they will lose market share. Such an approach may be limited by lack of competition in a market, by enterprises not offering privacy options favorable to the user, or by lack of information about actual privacy practices. Claims of privacy protection made by companies may be difficult for consumers to verify, except when they have already been violated. In a consumer protection approach, in contrast, it is claimed that individuals may not have the time or knowledge to make informed choices, or may not have reasonable alternatives available. In support of this view, Jensen and Potts showed that most privacy policies are above the reading level of the average person.[34] Therefore, this approach advocates greater government definition and enforcement of privacy standards. Privacy law[edit] Main article: Privacy law Privacy law is the area of law concerning the protecting and preserving of privacy rights of individuals. While there is no universally accepted privacy law among all countries, some organizations promote certain concepts be enforced by individual countries. For example, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 12, states: No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks. Europe For Europe, Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees the right to respect for private and family life, one's home and correspondence. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has developed a large body of jurisprudence defining this fundamental right to privacy.[citation needed] The European Union requires all member states to legislate to ensure that citizens have a right to privacy, through directives such as the 1995 Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of personal data. It is regulated in the United Kingdom by the Data Protection Act 1998 and in France data protection is also monitored by the CNIL, a governmental body which must authorize legislation concerning privacy before them being enacted. In civil law jurisdictions, the right to privacy fell within the ambit of the right to a private life (droit a la vie privee) from which the tort could be claimed. Personality rights and the broader tort based interpretation of the right to privacy protected correspondence, personal information and dignity. These rights gave rise to causes for damages in most civil law jurisdictions and common law jurisdictions prior to the sui generis development of Data Protection. Although there are comprehensive regulations for data protection, some studies show that despite the laws, there is a lack of enforcement in that no institution feels responsible to control the parties involved and enforce their laws.[35] United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, it is not possible to bring an action for invasion of privacy. An action may be brought under another tort (usually breach of confidence) and privacy must then be considered under EC law. In the UK, it is sometimes a defence that disclosure of private information was in the public interest.[36] There is, however, the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), an independent public body set up to promote access to official information and protect personal information. They do this by promoting good practice, ruling on eligible complaints, giving information to individuals and organisations, and taking action when the law is broken. The relevant UK laws include: Data Protection Act 1998; Freedom of Information Act 2000; Environmental Information Regulations 2004; Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003. The ICO has also provided a "Personal Information Toolkit" online which explains in more detail the various ways of protecting privacy online.[37] United States Concerning privacy laws of the United States, privacy is not guaranteed per se by the Constitution of the United States. The Supreme Court of the United States has found that other guarantees have "penumbras" that implicitly grant a right to privacy against government intrusion, for example in Griswold v. Connecticut (1965). In the United States, the right of freedom of speech granted in the First Amendment has limited the effects of lawsuits for breach of privacy. Privacy is regulated in the U.S. by the Privacy Act of 1974, and various state laws. Certain privacy rights have been established in the United States via legislation such as the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA),[38] the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act (GLB), and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). Brazil The Constitution of Brazil sets privacy as a major fundamental right. Even the State is not allowed to violate personal data, intimacy, private life, honor and image (article 5, incise X). In extreme situations, a judicial order can authorize some level of disclosure. But some data, such as correspondence, are absolutely inviolable, and not even judicial order can authorize the disclosure. Canada Canadian privacy law is governed federally by multiple acts, including the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and the Privacy Act (Canada). Mostly this legislation concerns privacy infringement by government organizations. Data privacy was first addressed with the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, and provincial-level legislation also exists to account for more specific cases personal privacy protection against commercial organizations. Australia In Australia there is the Privacy Act 1988. Privacy sector provisions of the Act apply to private sector organisations with a link to Australia, including: 1. individuals who collect, use or disclose personal information in the course of a business. For example, a sole trader's business activities will be regulated (unless it's a small business), but information gathered outside business activities won't be; 2. bodies corporate; and 3. partnerships, unincorporated associations and trusts - any act or practice of a partner, committee member or trustee is attributed to the organisation. Organisations outside Australia must comply with the provisions in some circumstances. Sending information out of Australia is also regulated.[39] Privacy Index Privacy index puts Brazil, Australia, Japan and South Africa in the higher level of privacy (around 2.2). On the bottom of the list there are United States and United Kingdom (around 1.4).[40] Privacy on the Internet[edit] Main article: Internet privacy There are many means to protect one's privacy on the internet. For example e-mails can be encrypted[41] and anonymizing proxies or anonymizing networks like I2P and Tor can be used to prevent the internet service providers from knowing which sites one visits and with whom one communicates. Covert collection of personally identifiable information has been identified as a primary concern by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.[42] Although some privacy advocates recommend the deletion of original and third-party HTTP cookies, Anthony Miyazaki, marketing professor at Florida International University and privacy scholar, warns that the "elimination of third-party cookie use by Web sites can be circumvented by cooperative strategies with third parties in which information is transferred after the Web site's use of original domain cookies."[43] As of December 2010, the Federal Trade Commission is reviewing policy regarding this issue as it relates to behavioral advertising.[42] Another aspect of privacy on the Internet relates to online social networking. Several online social network sites (OSNs) are among the top 10 most visited websites globally. A review and evaluation of scholarly work regarding the current state of the value of individuals' privacy of online social networking show the following results: "first, adults seem to be more concerned about potential privacy threats than younger users; second, policy makers should be alarmed by a large part of users who underestimate risks of their information privacy on OSNs; third, in the case of using OSNs and its services, traditional one-dimensional privacy approaches fall short".[44] This is exacerbated by the research indicating that personal traits such as sexual orientation, race, religious and political views, personality, or intelligence can be inferred based on the wide variety of digital footprint, such as samples of text, browsing logs, or Facebook Likes.[14] Privacy and location-based services[edit] As location tracking capabilities of mobile devices are increasing, problems related to user privacy arise, since user's position and preferences constitute personal information and improper use of them violates user's privacy. A recent MIT study[45][46] by de Montjoye et al. showed that 4 spatio-temporal points, approximate places and times, are enough to uniquely identify 95% of 1.5M people in a mobility database. The study further shows that these constraints hold even when the resolution of the dataset is low. Therefore, even coarse or blurred datasets provide little anonymity. Several methods to protect user's privacy when using location-based services have been proposed, including the use of anonymizing servers, blurring of information e.a. Methods to quantify privacy have also been proposed, to be able to calculate the equilibrium between the benefit of providing accurate location information and the drawbacks of risking personal privacy.[47] Users of such services may also choose to display more generic location information (i.e. "In the City" or "Philadelphia" or "Work") to some of their more casual acquaintances while only displaying specific location information, such as their exact address, to closer contacts like spouse, relatives, and good friends. In recent years, seen with the increasing importance of mobile devices and pared with the National Do Not Call Registry, telemarketers have turned attention to mobiles.[48] The efforts of telemarketers to use mobile devices have been met with both Federal Trade Commission and companies like PrivacyStar. Each year, thousands of complaints are filed to the FTC database with the help of companies and consumers. Privacy by design[edit] The principle of privacy by design states that privacy and data protection are embedded throughout the entire life cycle of technologies, from the early design stage to their deployment, use and ultimate disposal. Privacy self-synchronization[edit] Privacy self-synchronization is the mode by which the stakeholders of an enterprise privacy program spontaneously contribute collaboratively to the program's maximum success. The stakeholders may be customers, employees, managers, executives, suppliers, partners or investors. When self-synchronization is reached, the model states that the personal interests of individuals toward their privacy is in balance with the business interests of enterprises who collect and use the personal information of those individuals.[49] See also[edit] Civil liberties Digital identity Expectation of privacy Identity theft Identity theft in the United States Identity Theft Resource Center Information privacy Information privacy law Mind your own business Nineteen Eighty-Four Personal rights Personality rights Privacy law Privacy laws of the United States Privacy policy Privacy Rights Clearinghouse Privacy software Private sphere Privacy-enhancing technologies Profiling (information science) Public figure Solitude Sousveillance Surveillance Computer and network surveillance Mass surveillance 2013 global surveillance disclosures Mass surveillance in the United Kingdom Mass surveillance in the United States Mass surveillance industry Computer Security portal References[edit] ^ Zemskaya, E. A. (9 April 2005). "??????????? ??????? ???? ?????????? ????????? ????? (Features of the Russian language of fourth wave immigrants)" (in Russian). Gramota.ru. Retrieved 24 February 2009.  ^ a b Anderman, Gunilla M.; Rogers, Margaret (2003). Translation Today: Trends and Perspectives. Multilingual Matters. Retrieved 1 January 2012.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Managing Privacy: Information Technology and Corporate America By H. Jeff ^ a b "Fixing the Fourth Amendment with trade secret law: A response to Kyllo v. United States". Georgetown Law Journal. 2002.  ^ "Security Recommendations For Stalking Victims". Privacyrights.org. Retrieved 2012-01-01.  ^ a b Lin, Tom C. W., Undressing the CEO: Disclosing Private, Material Matters of Public Company Executives. 11 University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law 383 (2009). Available at SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2040940 ^ a b Lin, Tom C. W., Executive Trade Secrets. 87 Notre Dame Law Review 911 (2012). Available at SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2047462 ^ "FindLaw's Writ - Amar: Executive Privilege". Writ.corporate.findlaw.com. 2004-04-16. Retrieved 2012-01-01.  ^ a b c Solove, Daniel J., Rotenberg, Marc, Schwartz, Paul M. Privacy, Information, and Technology, Aspen Publ. (2006) pp. 9-11 ^ Information Privacy, Official Reference for the Certified Information privacy Professional (CIPP), Swire, P. P. [1]. and Bermann, S. (2007) ^ "Privacy Law in the United States". Rbs2.com. Retrieved 2012-01-01.  ^ "Privacy (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy)". Plato.stanford.edu. Retrieved 2012-01-01.  ^ a b c Rosen, Jeffrey. "The Web Means the End of Forgetting" New York Times, July 19, 2010 ^ a b Kosinski, Michal; Stillwell, D., Graepel, T. (2013). "Private traits and attributes are predictable from digital records of human behavior". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 110 (15): 5802–5805.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Kosinski, Michal; Bachrach, Y., Stillwell, D.J., Kohli, P., Graepel, T. (in press). "Manifestations Of User Personality In Website Choice And Behaviour On Online Social Networks". Machine Learning Journal.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help); Check date values in: |date= (help) ^ Popkin, Helen A. S., "Gov't officials want answers to secret iPhone tracking" MSNBC, "Technology", April 21, 2011 ^ "Apple denies tracking iPhone users, but promises changes", Computerworld, April 27, 2011 ^ "What I've Learned: Andy Grove", Esquire magazine, May 1, 2000 ^ Warren and Brandeis, "The Right To Privacy", 4 Harvard Law Review 193 (1890) ^ a b c Yael Onn, et al., Privacy in the Digital Environment , Haifa Center of Law & Technology, (2005) pp. 1-12 ^ Westin, A. (1968). Privacy and freedom (Fifth ed.). New York, U.S.A.: Atheneum. ^ Flaherty, D. (1989). Protecting privacy in surveillance societies: The federal republic of Germany, Sweden, France, Canada, and the United States. Chapel Hill, U.S.: The University of North Carolina Press. ^ Posner, R. A. (1981). The economics of privacy. The American Economic Review, 71(2), 405-409. ^ Lessig, L. (2006). Code: Version 2.0. New York, U.S.: Basic Books. ^ Johnson, Deborah (2009). Beauchamp, Bowie, Arnold, ed. Ethical theory and business. (8th ed. ed.). Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Pearson/Prentice Hall. pp. 428–442. ISBN 0136126022.  ^ Etzioni, A. (2006). Communitarianism. In B. S. Turner (Ed.), The Cambridge Dictionary of Sociology (pp. 81-83). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. ^ Etzioni, A. (2007). Are new technologies the enemy of privacy? Knowledge, Technology & Policy, 20, 115-119. ^ Etzioni, A. (2000). A communitarian perspective on privacy. Connecticut Law Review, 32(3), 897-905. ^ Etzioni, Amitai (March 2012). "The Privacy Merchants: What is to be done?". The Journal of Constitutional Law 14 (4): 950.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Regan, P. M. (1995). Legislating privacy: Technology, social values, and public policy. Chapel Hill, U.S.: The University of North Carolina Press. ^ United Nations. (1948). Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Retrieved October 7, 2006 from http://www.un.org/Overview/rights.html ^ Shade, L. R. (2008). Reconsidering the right to privacy in Canada. Bulletin of Science, Technology & Society, 28(1), 80-91. ^ Quinn, Michael J. (2009). Ethics for the Information Age. ISBN 0-321-53685-1.  ^ Jensen, Carlos (2004). Privacy policies as decision-making tools: an evaluation of online privacy notices.  ^ Burghardt, Buchmann, B?hm, Kühling, SivridisA Study on the Lack of Enforcement of Data Protection Acts Proceedings of the 3rd int. conference on e-democracy, 2009. ^ Does Beckham judgment change rules?, from BBC News (retrieved 27 April 2005). ^ "Personal Information Toolkit" prepared by the Information Commissioner’s Office, UK. ^ Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. § 6501 et seq. ^ "Privacy Act". Privacy.gov.au. 2010-11-01. Retrieved 2012-01-01.  ^ "International Privacy Index". Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC). 2013-09-27. Retrieved 2013-09-27.  ^ Eudora 3.05 was released with PGP built in, and then quickly followed by 3.06 without PGP.Eudora Light 3.0.5 ^ a b Federal Trade Commission (2010), "Protecting Consumer Privacy in an Era of Rapid Change: A Proposed Framework for Businesses and Policymakers," Preliminary FTC Staff Report (December), available at [2]. ^ Miyazaki, Anthony D. (2008), "Online Privacy and the Disclosure of Cookie Use: Effects on Consumer Trust and Anticipated Patronage," Journal of Public Policy & Marketing, 23 (Spring), 19–33. ^ Hugl, Ulrike (2011), "Reviewing Person’s Value of Privacy of Online Social Networking," Internet Research, 21(4), in press, http://www.emeraldinsight.com/journals.htm?issn=1066-2243&volume=21&issue=4&articleid=1926600&show=abstract. ^ de Montjoye, Yves-Alexandre; César A. Hidalgo, Michel Verleysen, Vincent D. Blondel (March 25, 2013). "Unique in the Crowd: The privacy bounds of human mobility". Nature srep. doi:10.1038/srep01376. Retrieved 12 April 2013.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Palmer, Jason (March 25, 2013). "Mobile location data 'present anonymity risk'". BBC News. Retrieved 12 April 2013.  ^ Athanasios S. Voulodimos and Charalampos Z. Patrikakis, "Quantifying Privacy in Terms of Entropy for Context Aware Services", special issue of the Identity in the Information Society journal, "Identity Management in Grid and SOA", Springer, vol. 2, no 2, December 2009 ^ "Sneaky tactics used by telemarketers and debt collectors to get your cell phone number". Businessinsider.com. Retrieved 2012-08-27.  ^ Popa, C., et. all., "Managing Personal Information: Insights on Corporate Risk and Opportunity for Privacy-Savvy Leaders", Carswell (2012), Ch.6 Further reading[edit] Amitai Etzioni, 2000, The Limits of Privacy, New York: Basic Books. Thomas Allmer, A Critical Contribution to Theoretical Foundations of Privacy Studies, "Journal of Information, Communication & Ethics in Society", Vol. 9, 2, pp. 83–101. Ruth Gavison, "Privacy and the Limits of the Law," in Michael J. Gorr and Sterling Harwood, eds., Crime and Punishment: Philosophic Explorations (Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing Co., 2000, formerly Jones and Bartlett Publishers, 1996), paperback, 552 pages, pp. 46–68. Ulrike Hugl, "Approaching the value of Privacy: Review of theoretical privacy concepts and aspects of privacy management", Proceedings of the Sixteenth Americas Conference on Information Systems (AMCIS) 2010, paper no. 248. Frederick S. Lane, American Privacy: The 400-Year History of Our Most Contested Right, (Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 2010). Steve Lohr, "How Privacy Can Vanish Online, a Bit at a Time", The New York Times, Wednesday, March 17, 2010. Adam D. Moore, 2010, "Privacy Rights: Moral and Legal Foundations," Penn State University Press. Yael Onn, et al. Privacy in the Digital Environment, Haifa Center of Law & Technology, (2005). Bruce Schneier, Privacy in the Age of Persistence Robert Ellis Smith, 2004, "Ben Franklin's Web Site, Privacy and Curiosity from Plymouth Rock to the Internet," Providence: Privacy Journal. Daniel J. Solove, "'I've Got Nothing to Hide' and Other Misunderstandings of Privacy", San Diego Law Review, Vol. 44, 745-772. Herman Tavani, “Informational Privacy: Concepts, Theories, and Controversies,” in Kenneth Himma and Herman Tavani, eds., The Handbook of Information and Computer Ethics (Hoboken: Wiley, 2008), pp. 131-164. Judith Jarvis Thomson, "The Right to Privacy," in Michael J. Gorr and Sterling Harwood, eds., Crime and Punishment: Philosophic Explorations (Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing Co., 2000, formerly Jones and Bartlett Publishers, 1995), 552 pages, pp. 34–46. Raymond Wacks, Privacy: A Very Short Introduction, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009. Judith Wagner DeCew, 1997, In Pursuit of Privacy: Law, Ethics, and the Rise of Technology, Ithaca: Cornell University Press. Rita Watson and Menahem Blondheim (eds.), The Toronto School of Communication Theory: Interpretations, Extensions and Applications (Toronto and Jerusalem: University of Toronto Press and Magnes Press, 2007) A. Westin, 1967, Privacy and Freedom, New York: Atheneum. External links[edit] Find more about Privacy at Wikipedia's sister projects Definitions and translations from Wiktionary Media from Commons Quotations from Wikiquote Source texts from Wikisource Textbooks from Wikibooks Learning resources from Wikiversity Articles and interviews "Privacy" entry in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. International Privacy Index world map, The 2007 International Privacy Ranking, Privacy International (London). "Small Businesses and Identity Theft", interview with Ed Goodman, Chief Privacy Officer, Identify Theft 911, 12 minute video, Fox News, 26 January 2011. "The State and Surveillance: Fear and Control", a conversation between Didier Bigo and Mireille Delmas-Marty, La Clé des Langues, ISSN 2107-702923, 23 September 2011. "Google’s Cerf Says 'Privacy May Be An Anomaly'. Historically, He’s Right.", Gregory Ferenstein, TechCrunch, 20 November 2013. Organizations Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) Privacy Rights Clearinghouse a consumer education, privacy rights and advocacy organization. privacy.org, a service of the Electronic Privacy Information Center. Privacy Office at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Privacy on the Open Directory Project. UNESCO Chair in Data Privacy, website. v t e Privacy Principles Expectation of privacy Privacy law Australia Canada England European Union USA Areas Consumer Medical Workplace Information privacy Law Financial Internet Political Personally identifiable information (Personal identifiers) Privacy-enhancing technologies Social networking sites Advocacy Organizations ACLU Center for Democracy and Technology CPSR Future of Privacy Forum EPIC EFF GNI Privacy International Privacy Rights Clearinghouse See also Anonymity Cyberstalking Data security Human rights Identity theft Panopticon Personality rights Search warrant Surveillance en masse state v t e Articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights   General principles Article 1: Freedom, Egalitarianism, Dignity and Brotherhood Article 2: Universality of rights   International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights Articles 1 and 2: Right to freedom from discrimination Article 3: Right to life, liberty and security of person Article 4: Freedom from slavery Article 5: Freedom from torture or cruel and unusual punishment Article 6: Right to personhood Article 7: Equality before the law Article 8: Right to effective remedy from the law Article 9: Freedom from arbitrary arrest, detention or exile Article 10: Right to a fair trial Article 11.1: Presumption of innocence Article 11.2: Prohibition of retrospective law Article 12: Right to privacy Article 13.1: Freedom of movement Article 13.2: Right of return Article 14: Right of asylum Article 15: Right to a nationality Article 16: Right to marriage and family life Article 17: Right to property Article 18: Freedom of thought, conscience and religion Article 19: Freedom of opinion and expression and information Article 20.1: Freedom of assembly Article 20.2: Freedom of association Article 21.1: Right to participation in government Article 21.2: Right of equal access to public office Article 21.3: Right to universal suffrage   International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Article 22: Right to social security Article 23.1: Right to work Article 23.2: Right to equal pay for equal work Article 23.3: Right to just remuneration Article 23.4: Right to join a trade union Article 24: Right to rest and leisure Article 25.1: Right to an adequate standard of living Article 25.2: Right to special care and assistance for mothers and children Article 26.1: Right to education Article 26.2: Human rights education Article 26.3: Right to choice of education Article 27: Right to science and culture   Context, limitations and duties Article 28: Social order Article 29.1: Social responsibility Article 29.2: Limitations of human rights Article 29.3: The supremacy of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Article 30: Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein. Human rights category · Human rights portal v t e Substantive human rights Note: What is considered a human right is controversial and not all the topics listed are universally accepted as human rights. Civil and political Equality before the law Freedom from arbitrary arrest and detention Freedom of assembly Freedom of association Freedom from cruel and unusual punishment Freedom from discrimination Freedom from exile Freedom of information Freedom of movement Freedom of religion Freedom from slavery Freedom of speech Freedom of thought Freedom from torture Liberty LGBT rights Nationality Personhood Presumption of innocence Right of asylum Right to die Right to a fair trial Right to family life Right to keep and bear arms Right to life Right to privacy Right to protest Right to refuse medical treatment Security of person Universal suffrage Economic, social and cultural Digital rights Equal pay for equal work Fair remuneration Labor rights Right to an adequate standard of living Right to clothing Right to development Right to education Right to food Right to health Right to housing Right to Internet access Right to property Right to public participation Right of return Right to science and culture Right to social security Right to water Right to work Trade union membership Reproductive Abortion Family planning Freedom from involuntary female genital mutilation Reproductive health Violations Corporal punishment War and conflict Civilian Combatant Freedom from genocide Prisoner of war War rape v t e Media culture Media Mass media Mainstream media News media News broadcasting News cycle Radio Cinema Television Internet Ideology Mainstream Consumerism Pop music Spectacle (critical theory) Advanced capitalism American Dream Pensée unique Bipartisanship Deception Forms Public relations Advertising Propaganda Spin (public relations) Tabloid journalism Techniques Framing (social sciences) Recuperation (politics) Narcotizing dysfunction Sensationalism Cult of personality Dumbing down Media circus Pseudo-event Others Crowd manipulation Media manipulation Managing the news Philosophers Walter Lippmann Edward Bernays Theodor Adorno Marshall McLuhan Guy Debord Counterculture Political satire Punk Culture jamming Graffiti Occupation (protest) Demonstration (people) Protest Civil disobedience Boycott Strike action In academia Media studies Media influence Semiotic democracy The Lonely Crowd Various issues Freedom of speech Media bias Privacy Anonymity Concentration of media ownership Synonyms Advanced capitalism Culture industry Mass society Post-Fordism Society of the Spectacle v t e 1920s media culture Collective imaginary Flapper Betty Boop Modern girl Torches of Freedom Cosmetics in the 1920s Theoreticians Walter Lippmann Edward Bernays Other topics Tad Dorgan Federal Radio Commission 1930s topics Mohawk Valley formula Remington Rand strike of 1936–1937 Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Privacy&oldid=589720293" Categories: Privacy Law Human rights Social issues Identity management Digital rights Hidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters CS1 errors: dates Articles with limited geographic scope from June 2011 USA-centric Articles containing Latin-language text All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from June 2013 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2013 Articles with unsourced statements from November 2008 Articles with Open Directory Project links Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ÇáÚÑÈíÉ ????????? Català ?e?tina Dansk Deutsch Espa?ol ÝÇÑÓ? Français ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latina ????? Nederlands ??? Norsk bokm?l Polski Português ??????? Sicilianu Sloven??ina Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska Tagalog ?????????? ÇÑÏæ Ti?ng Vi?t ?????? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 17 January 2014 at 13:20. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view