Portal:Library and information science - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Portal:Library and information science From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Portal:Information science) Jump to: navigation, search Wikipedia portals: Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Natural sciences People Philosophy Religion Society Technology The Library and Information Science Portal edit  watch   Introduction Library science and information science are two closely related and often intersecting disciplines that deal primarily with the organization and retrieval of information. Library science is an interdisciplinary social science incorporating the humanities, law and applied science and studying topics related to libraries; the collection, organization and dissemination of information resources; and the political economy of information. Library science has also historically included archival science, although a conceptual distinction between libraries and archives has evolved over time. Amongst the varied topics of study that fall within library science: how information resources are organized to serve the needs of select user groups; how people interact with classification systems and technology; how information is acquired, evaluated and applied by people in and outside of libraries as well as cross-culturally; how people are trained and educated for careers in libraries; the ethics that guide library service and organization; the legal status of libraries and information resources, and the applied science of computer technology used in documentation and records management. Library science is constantly evolving, incorporating new topics like database management, information architecture and knowledge management. Information science (also referred to as information studies) is an interdisciplinary science primarily concerned with the collection, classification, manipulation, storage, retrieval and dissemination of information. Information science studies the application and usage of knowledge in organizations, and the interaction between people, organizations and information systems. It is often, though not exclusively, studied as a branch of computer science or informatics and is closely related to the cognitive and social sciences. ...More about library science More about information science... View new selections below (purge) edit  watch   Selected article Censorship is the removal or withholding of information from the public by a controlling group or body. Typically censorship is done by governments, religious groups, or the mass media, although other forms of censorship exist. The withholding of official secrets, commercial secrets, intellectual property, and privileged lawyer-client communication is not usually described as censorship when it remains within reasonable bounds. Because of this, the term "censorship" often carries with it a sense of untoward, inappropriate or repressive secrecy. Censorship is closely related to the concepts of freedom of speech and freedom of expression. When overused, it is often associated with human rights abuse, dictatorship and repression. The term "censorship" is often used as a pejorative term to signify a belief that a group controlling certain information is using this control improperly or for its own benefit, or preventing others from accessing information that should be made readily accessible (often so that conclusions drawn can be verified). ...Read more More selected articles... edit  watch   Selected quote “ The impious maintain that nonsense is normal in the Library and that the reasonable (and even humble and pure coherence) is an almost miraculous exception. ” — Jorge Luis Borges, The Library of Babel More selected quotes... edit  watch   Selected biography Benjamin Franklin (January 17 [O.S. January 6] 1706 – April 17, 1790) was one of the best-known Founding Fathers of the United States. He was a leading author, politician, printer, scientist, philosopher, publisher, inventor, civic activist, and diplomat. He founded the United States' earliest libraries, including The Library Company of Philadelphia and those found at the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard University, Brown University, Dartmouth College, and many others. As a scientist he was a major figure in the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity. As a political writer and activist he, more than anyone, invented the idea of an American nation, and as a diplomat during the American Revolution, he secured the French alliance that helped to make independence possible. Franklin was noted for his curiosity, his writings (popular, political and scientific), and his diversity of interests. As a leader of the Enlightenment, he gained the recognition of scientists and intellectuals across Europe. An agent in London before the Revolution, and Minister to France during it, he more than anyone defined the new nation in the minds of Europe. His success in securing French military and financial aid was a great contributor to the American victory over Britain. He invented the lightning rod; he was an early proponent of colonial unity; historians hail him as the "First American." ...Read more More selected biographies... edit  watch   Did you know... ...that a design for the Hoyt Library (pictured) in Saginaw, Michigan, rejected as too monumental, wasteful of space, and not functional as a library, was used to build the Public Library of New Orleans in Louisiana? ...that the Church of Scientology attempted to ban the non-fiction book Scientology: The Now Religion in Canadian libraries during 1974? ...that the first Hillsboro Public Library that opened in 1914 was the only public Carnegie library built in Washington County? ...that a major source for Greek mythology, the first Vatican Mythographer, survives in a single text in the Vatican Library? Did you also know... edit  watch   In the news March,2012, Muhammad Shahid Soroya elected as President Punjab University Library & Information Science Alumni Association (PULISAA) in Pakistan September 21, 2011 - Library vendor OverDrive, Inc. adds Amazon Kindle compatible E-books to public and school libraries, allowing library lending over Amazon's Whispernet technology.(OverDrive) April 4, 2007 - Noted information retrieval expert Karen Sp?rck Jones dies.(Univ. of Cambridge) March 23, 2007 - University of Michigan School of Information announces first U.S. Master's degree specialization in Social Computing.(PR Newswire) March 22, 2007 - Child Online Protection Act ruled unconstitutional by United States federal judge.(ZDNet) Older news... edit  watch   Selected picture Image credit: Selbymay The Biblioteca Nacional de Espa?a in Madrid is the national library of Spain. It was founded in 1712 and currently holds over 15 million books. More selected pictures... edit  watch   Categories Library science - Libraries - Librarians - Library 2.0 - Library associations - Library cataloging and classification - Library consortia Bibliographic databases - Bibliography - Catalogues - Classification systems - Help desk - Indexing - Reference management software Information architects - Information retrieval - Information science - Information systems - Information theory edit  watch   WikiProjects Libraries Anime and manga | Books | Children's literature | Comics | Fact and Reference Check | Poetry | Science Fiction edit  watch   Things you can do Nominate a selected article, biography, picture or quote. Expand articles listed on the list of basic library and information science topics. Expand a stub article. Create a requested article. Join the WikiProject Librarians. Help out at the reference desk. edit  watch   Topics in library and information science For a more comprehensive treatment of topics, see Outline of library science. General Structure Storage/ retrieval Society Glossary of library and information science List of librarians List of I-Schools History of Information Science History of library science Librarians in popular culture Information architecture Cataloging List of Catalogs and indexes Classification Library classification Taxonomic classification Scientific classification Statistical classification Security classification Film classification Categorization Data modeling Knowledge management/ Knowledge engineering Information system Information retrieval Controlled vocabulary Cross-language information retrieval Digital libraries Document classification Educational psychology Federated search Full text search Geographic information system Information extraction Knowledge visualization Question answering Search engines Search index tf-idf Memory Information seeking Data storage device Document management Semantic web XML Computer storage Information society Censorship Copyright Freedom of Information Act Information access Intellectual freedom Intellectual property Literacy USA PATRIOT Act Open source Privacy Cultural studies Technological determinism Groupware Human-computer interaction Information ethics Usability engineering/ User-centered design Institutions Scientometrics Informatics Preservation Libraries Archives Museums Media Education Economic system Government Family/ friends Religion Bibliometrics Bradford's law Citation Data mining Impact factor Informetrics Peer review Scientometrics Web mining Webometrics Bioinformatics Biodiversity Informatics Biomedical informatics Business Informatics Ecoinformatics Cheminformatics Community informatics Geoinformatics Health informatics Laboratory informatics Neuroinformatics Social informatics Archival science Conservation[disambiguation needed] Conservation movement[clarification needed] Preservationist Art conservation and restoration Digital preservation Film preservation Historic preservation Case preservation[clarification needed] edit  watch   Related portals Books Computer science Information technology Law Literature Society British Library edit  watch   Associated Wikimedia Libraries on Wikinews     Libraries on Wikiquote     Libraries on Wikimedia Commons     Libraries on Wikisource News Quotes Images Texts edit  watch   Portals? What are portals? List of portals Featured portals Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Library_and_information_science&oldid=590794047" Categories: Library science Culture portals Science portals Education portals Hidden categories: Featured portals Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ÇáÚÑÈíÉ ?e?tina Deutsch Eesti Français Polski Edit links This page was last modified on 15 January 2014 at 09:53. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view