Text corpus - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Text corpus From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Text corpora) Jump to: navigation, search This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (December 2009) In linguistics, a corpus (plural corpora) or text corpus is a large and structured set of texts (nowadays usually electronically stored and processed). They are used to do statistical analysis and hypothesis testing, checking occurrences or validating linguistic rules within a specific language territory. A corpus may contain texts in a single language (monolingual corpus) or text data in multiple languages (multilingual corpus). Multilingual corpora that have been specially formatted for side-by-side comparison are called aligned parallel corpora. In order to make the corpora more useful for doing linguistic research, they are often subjected to a process known as annotation. An example of annotating a corpus is part-of-speech tagging, or POS-tagging, in which information about each word's part of speech (verb, noun, adjective, etc.) is added to the corpus in the form of tags. Another example is indicating the lemma (base) form of each word. When the language of the corpus is not a working language of the researchers who use it, interlinear glossing is used to make the annotation bilingual. Some corpora have further structured levels of analysis applied. In particular, a number of smaller corpora may be fully parsed. Such corpora are usually called Treebanks or Parsed Corpora. The difficulty of ensuring that the entire corpus is completely and consistently annotated means that these corpora are usually smaller, containing around one to three million words. Other levels of linguistic structured analysis are possible, including annotations for morphology, semantics and pragmatics. Corpora are the main knowledge base in corpus linguistics. The analysis and processing of various types of corpora are also the subject of much work in computational linguistics, speech recognition and machine translation, where they are often used to create hidden Markov models for part of speech tagging and other purposes. Corpora and frequency lists derived from them are useful for language teaching. Corpora can be considered as a type of foreign language writing aid as the contextualised grammatical knowledge acquired by non-native language users through exposure to authentic texts in corpora allows learners to grasp the manner of sentence formation in the target language, enabling effective writing.[1] Contents 1 Archaeological corpora 2 Some notable text corpora 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Archaeological corpora[edit] Text corpora are also used in the study of historical documents, for example in attempts to decipher ancient scripts, or in Biblical scholarship. Some archaeological corpora can be of such short duration that they provide a snapshot in time. One of the shortest corpora in time, may be the 15–30 year Amarna letters texts (1350 BC). The corpus of an ancient city, (for example the "Kültepe Texts" of Turkey), may go through a series of corpora, determined by their find site dates. Some notable text corpora[edit] Main article: List of text corpora See also[edit] Concordance Corpus linguistics Linguistic Data Consortium Natural language processing Natural Language Toolkit Parallel text alignment Search engines: they access the "web corpus". Speech corpus Translation memory Treebank Zipf's Law References[edit] ^ Yoon, H., & Hirvela, A. (2004). ESL Student Attitudes toward Corpus Use in L2 Writing. Journal Of Second Language Writing, 13(4), 257–283. Retrieved 21 March 2012. External links[edit] Free, web-based corpora (45-425 million words each): American (COCA, COHA, TIME), British (BNC), Spanish, Portuguese Computational Linguistics on the Open Directory Project ACL SIGLEX Resource Links: Text Corpora The Leipzig Glossing Rules: Conventions for interlinear morpheme-by-morpheme glosses Developing Linguistic Corpora: a Guide to Good Practice An interface for querying automatically-constructed virtual corpora. TEP: Tehran English-Persian Parallel Corpus. [1] Building synchronous parallel corpora of the languages taught at the Faculty of Arts of Charles University. TS Corpus - A Turkish Corpus freely available for academic research. Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Text_corpus&oldid=590406713" Categories: Discourse analysis Corpus linguistics Computational linguistics Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from December 2009 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles with Open Directory Project links Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ÇáÚÑÈíÉ ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)ý ????????? Català ?e?tina Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Espa?ol Esperanto Euskara ÝÇÑÓ? Français Galego ??? ?????? Ido Italiano Lietuvi? Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokm?l Polski Português Sloven?ina Sloven??ina Suomi Svenska ??? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 12 January 2014 at 20:22. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view