Orthogonality - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Orthogonality From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search "Orthogonal" redirects here. For the trilogy of novels by Greg Egan, see Orthogonal (novel). This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2010) The line segments AB and CD are orthogonal to each other. In mathematics, orthogonality is the relation of two lines at right angles to one another (perpendicularity), and the generalization of this relation into n dimensions; and to a variety of mathematical relations thought of as describing non-overlapping, uncorrelated, or independent objects of some kind. A widespread example is with vinyl records and how in the 1960s they were able to get left and right stereo signals from one single groove. By making the groove a 90-degree cut into the vinyl, wave motion on one wall was independent from any motion (or non-motion) along the other wall. The concept of orthogonality has been broadly generalized in mathematics, science, and engineering, especially since the beginning of the 16th century. Much of it has involved the concepts of mathematical functions, calculus, and linear algebra. Contents 1 Etymology 2 Mathematics 2.1 Definitions 2.2 Euclidean vector spaces 2.3 Orthogonal functions 2.4 Examples 2.4.1 Orthogonal polynomials 2.4.2 Orthogonal states in quantum mechanics 3 Art 4 Computer science 5 Communications 6 Statistics, econometrics, and economics 7 Taxonomy 8 Combinatorics 9 Chemistry 10 System reliability 11 Neuroscience 12 Gaming 13 See also 14 References Etymology[edit] The word comes from the Greek ????? (orthos), meaning "straight", and ????? (gonia), meaning "angle". The ancient Greek ?????????? orthog?nion (< ????? orthos 'upright'[1] + ????? g?nia 'angle'[2]) and classical Latin orthogonium originally denoted a rectangle.[3] Later, they came to mean a right triangle. In the 12th century, the post-classical Latin word orthogonalis came to mean a right angle or something related to a right angle.[4] Mathematics[edit] Orthogonality and rotation of coordinate systems compared between left: Euclidean space through circular angle ?, right: in Minkowski spacetime through hyperbolic angle ? (red lines labelled c denote the worldlines of a light signal, a vector is orthogonal to itself if it lies on this line).[5] Definitions[edit] In geometry, two Euclidean vectors are orthogonal if they are perpendicular, i.e., they form a right angle. Curves or functions in the plane are orthogonal at an intersection if their tangent lines are perpendicular at that point. Two vectors, x and y, in an inner product space, V, are orthogonal if their inner product is zero.[6] This relationship is denoted . Two vector subspaces, A and B, of an inner product space, V, are called orthogonal subspaces if each vector in A is orthogonal to each vector in B. The largest subspace of V that is orthogonal to a given subspace is its orthogonal complement. A linear transformation, T : V ? V, is called an orthogonal linear transformation if it preserves the inner product, and thus the angle between and the lengths of vectors. That is, for all pairs of vectors x and y in the inner product space V, . A term rewriting system is said to be orthogonal if it is left-linear and is non-ambiguous. Orthogonal term rewriting systems are confluent. A set of vectors is called pairwise orthogonal if each pairing of them is orthogonal. Such a set is called an orthogonal set. Nonzero pairwise orthogonal vectors are always linearly independent. In certain cases, the word normal is used to mean orthogonal, particularly in the geometric sense as in the normal to a surface. For example, the y-axis is normal to the curve y = x2 at the origin. However, normal may also refer to the magnitude of a vector. In particular, a set is called orthonormal (orthogonal plus normal) if it is an orthogonal set of unit vectors. As a result, use of the term normal to mean "orthogonal" is often avoided. The word "normal" also has a different meaning in probability and statistics. A vector space with a bilinear form generalizes the case of an inner product. When the bilinear form applied to two vectors results in zero, then they are orthogonal. The case of a pseudo-Euclidean plane uses the term hyperbolic orthogonality. In the diagram, axes x? and t? are hyperbolic-orthogonal for any given ?. Euclidean vector spaces[edit] In 2-D or higher-dimensional Euclidean space, two vectors are orthogonal if and only if their dot product is zero, i.e. they make an angle of 90°, or ?/2 radians.[7] Hence orthogonality of vectors is an extension of the concept of perpendicular vectors into higher-dimensional spaces. In terms of Euclidean subspaces, the "orthogonal complement" of a line is the plane perpendicular to it, and vice-versa.[8] Note however that there is no correspondence with regards to perpendicular planes, because vectors in subspaces start from the origin(definition of vector subspace). In four-dimensional Euclidean space, the orthogonal complement of a line is a hyperplane and vice versa, and that of a plane is a plane.[8] Orthogonal functions[edit] Main article: Orthogonal functions By using integral calculus. it is common to use the following to define the inner product of two functions f and g: Here we introduce a nonnegative weight function in the definition of this inner product. In simple cases, w(x) = 1, exactly. We say that these functions are orthogonal if that inner product is zero: We write the norms with respect to this inner product and the weight function as The members of a set of functions { fi : i = 1, 2, 3, ... } are: orthogonal on the closed interval [a, b] if orthonormal on the interval [a, b] if where is the "Kronecker delta" function. In other words, any two of them are orthogonal, and the norm of each is 1 in the case of the orthonormal sequence. See in particular the orthogonal polynomials. Examples[edit] The vectors (1, 3, 2)T, (3, ?1, 0)T, (1/3, 1, ?5/3)T are orthogonal to each other, since (1)(3) + (3)(?1) + (2)(0) = 0, (3)(1/3) + (?1)(1) + (0)(?5/3) = 0, and (1)(1/3) + (3)(1) + (2)(?5/3) = 0. The vectors (1, 0, 1, 0, ...)T and (0, 1, 0, 1, ...)T are orthogonal to each other. The dot product of these vectors is 0. We can then make the generalization to consider the vectors in Z2n: for some positive integer a, and for 1 ? k ? a ? 1, these vectors are orthogonal, for example (1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0)T, (0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1)T, (0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0)T are orthogonal. Take two quadratic functions 2t + 3 and 5t2 + t ? 17/9. These functions are orthogonal with respect to a unit weight function on the interval from ?1 to 1. The product of these two functions is 10t3 + 17t2 ? 7/9 t ? 17/3, and now, The functions 1, sin(nx), cos(nx) : n = 1, 2, 3, ... are orthogonal with respect to Riemann integration on the intervals [0, 2?], [-?, ?], or any other closed interval of length 2?. This fact is a central one in Fourier series. Orthogonal polynomials[edit] Various polynomial sequences named for mathematicians of the past are sequences of orthogonal polynomials. In particular: The Hermite polynomials are orthogonal with respect to the Gaussian distribution with zero mean value. The Legendre polynomials are orthogonal with respect to the uniform distribution on the interval [?1, 1]. The Laguerre polynomials are orthogonal with respect to the exponential distribution. Somewhat more general Laguerre polynomial sequences are orthogonal with respect to gamma distributions. The Chebyshev polynomials of the first kind are orthogonal with respect to the measure The Chebyshev polynomials of the second kind are orthogonal with respect to the Wigner semicircle distribution. Orthogonal states in quantum mechanics[edit] In quantum mechanics, two eigenstates of a Hermitian operator, and , are orthogonal if they correspond to different eigenvalues. This means, in Dirac notation, that unless and correspond to the same eigenvalue. This follows from the fact that Schr?dinger's equation is a Sturm–Liouville equation (in Schr?dinger's formulation) or that observables are given by hermitian operators (in Heisenberg's formulation).[citation needed] Art[edit] In art, the perspective (imaginary) lines pointing to the vanishing point are referred to as "orthogonal lines". The term "orthogonal line" often has a quite different meaning in the literature of modern art criticism. Many works by painters such as Piet Mondrian and Burgoyne Diller are noted for their exclusive use of "orthogonal lines" — not, however, with reference to perspective, but rather referring to lines that are straight and exclusively horizontal or vertical, forming right angles where they intersect. For example, an essay at the Web site of the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum states that "Mondrian ....dedicated his entire oeuvre to the investigation of the balance between orthogonal lines and primary colours." [1] Computer science[edit] Orthogonality in programming language design is the ability to use various language features in arbitrary combinations with consistent results.[9] This usage was introduced by van Wijngaarten in the design of Algol 68: The number of independent primitive concepts has been minimized in order that the language be easy to describe, to learn, and to implement. On the other hand, these concepts have been applied “orthogonally” in order to maximize the expressive power of the language while trying to avoid deleterious superfluities.[10] Orthogonality is a system design property which guarantees that modifying the technical effect produced by a component of a system neither creates nor propagates side effects to other components of the system. Typically this is achieved through the separation of concerns and encapsulation, and it is essential for feasible and compact designs of complex systems. The emergent behavior of a system consisting of components should be controlled strictly by formal definitions of its logic and not by side effects resulting from poor integration, i.e., non-orthogonal design of modules and interfaces. Orthogonality reduces testing and development time because it is easier to verify designs that neither cause side effects nor depend on them. An instruction set is said to be orthogonal if it lacks redundancy (i.e., there is only a single instruction that can be used to accomplish a given task)[11] and is designed such that instructions can use any register in any addressing mode. This terminology results from considering an instruction as a vector whose components are the instruction fields. One field identifies the registers to be operated upon and another specifies the addressing mode. An orthogonal instruction set uniquely encodes all combinations of registers and addressing modes.[citation needed] Communications[edit] In communications, multiple-access schemes are orthogonal when an ideal receiver can completely reject arbitrarily strong unwanted signals from the desired signal using different basis functions. One such scheme is TDMA, where the orthogonal basis functions are nonoverlapping rectangular pulses ("time slots"). Another scheme is orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM), which refers to the use, by a single transmitter, of a set of frequency multiplexed signals with the exact minimum frequency spacing needed to make them orthogonal so that they do not interfere with each other. Well known examples include (a, g, and n) versions of 802.11 Wi-Fi; WiMAX; ITU-T G.hn, DVB-T, the terrestrial digital TV broadcast system used in most of the world outside North America; and DMT (Discrete Multi Tone), the standard form of ADSL. In OFDM, the subcarrier frequencies are chosen so that the subcarriers are orthogonal to each other, meaning that crosstalk between the subchannels is eliminated and intercarrier guard bands are not required. This greatly simplifies the design of both the transmitter and the receiver. In conventional FDM, a separate filter for each subchannel is required. Statistics, econometrics, and economics[edit] When performing statistical analysis, independent variables that affect a particular dependent variable are said to be orthogonal if they are uncorrelated,[12] since the covariance forms an inner product. In this case the same results are obtained for the effect of any of the independent variables upon the dependent variable, regardless of whether one models the effects of the variables individually with simple regression or simultaneously with multiple regression. If correlation is present, the factors are not orthogonal and different results are obtained by the two methods. This usage arises from the fact that if centered by subtracting the expected value (the mean), uncorrelated variables are orthogonal in the geometric sense discussed above, both as observed data (i.e., vectors) and as random variables (i.e., density functions). One econometric formalism that is alternative to the maximum likelihood framework, the Generalized Method of Moments, relies on orthogonality conditions. In particular, the Ordinary Least Squares estimator may be easily derived from an orthogonality condition between the explanatory variables and model residuals. Taxonomy[edit] In taxonomy, an orthogonal classification is one in which no item is a member of more than one group, that is, the classifications are mutually exclusive. Combinatorics[edit] In combinatorics, two n×n Latin squares are said to be orthogonal if their superimposition yields all possible n2 combinations of entries.[13] Chemistry[edit] In synthetic organic chemistry orthogonal protection is a strategy allowing the deprotection of functional groups independently of each other. In supramolecular chemistry the notion of orthogonality refers to the possibility of two or more supramolecular, often non-covalent, interactions being compatible; reversibly forming without interference from the other. System reliability[edit] In the field of system reliability orthogonal redundancy is that form of redundancy where the form of backup device or method is completely different from the prone to error device or method. The failure mode of an orthogonally redundant back-up device or method does not intersect with and is completely different from the failure mode of the device or method in need of redundancy to safeguard the total system against catastrophic failure. Neuroscience[edit] In neuroscience, a sensory map in the brain which has overlapping stimulus coding (e.g. location and quality) is called an orthogonal map. Gaming[edit] In board games such as chess which feature a grid of squares, 'orthogonal' is commonly used to mean "in the same row or column". In this context 'orthogonal' and 'diagonal' are considered opposites.[14] See also[edit] Look up orthogonal in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Imaginary number Isogonal Isogonal trajectory Orthogonal complement Orthogonal group Orthogonal matrix Orthogonal polynomials Orthogonalization Gram–Schmidt process Orthonormal basis Orthonormality Pan-orthogonality occurs in coquaternions Surface normal References[edit] ^ Liddell and Scott, A Greek–English Lexicon s.v. ????? ^ Liddell and Scott, A Greek–English Lexicon s.v. ????? ^ Liddell and Scott, A Greek–English Lexicon s.v. ?????????? ^ Oxford English Dictionary, Third Edition, September 2004, s.v. orthogonal ^ J.A. Wheeler, C. Misner, K.S. Thorne (1973). Gravitation. W.H. Freeman & Co. p. 58. ISBN 0-7167-0344-0.  ^ "Wolfram MathWorld".  ^ Trefethen, Lloyd N. & Bau, David (1997). Numerical linear algebra. SIAM. p. 13. ISBN 978-0-89871-361-9.  ^ a b R. Penrose (2007). The Road to Reality. Vintage books. pp. 417–419. ISBN 0-679-77631-1.  ^ Michael L. Scott, Programming Language Pragmatics, p. 228 ^ 1968, Adriaan van Wijngaarden et al., Revised Report on the Algorithmic Language ALGOL 68, section 0.1.2, Orthogonal design ^ Null, Linda & Lobur, Julia (2006). The essentials of computer organization and architecture (2nd ed.). Jones & Bartlett Learning. p. 257. ISBN 978-0-7637-3769-6.  ^ Probability, Random Variables and Stochastic Processes. McGraw-Hill. 2002. p. 211. ISBN 0-07-366011-6.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help); |coauthors= requires |author= (help) ^ Hedayat, A. et al (1999). Orthogonal arrays: theory and applications. Springer. p. 168. ISBN 978-0-387-98766-8.  ^ "chessvariants.org chess glossary".  Chapter 4 – Compactness and Orthogonality in The Art of Unix Programming v t e Topics related to linear algebra Basic concepts Scalar Vector Vector space Vector projection Linear span Linear map Linear projection Linear independence Linear combination Basis Column space Row space Dual space Orthogonality Kernel Eigenvalues and eigenvectors Least squares regressions Outer product Inner product space Dot product Transpose Gram–Schmidt process Linear equations Matrices Matrix Matrix multiplication Matrix decomposition Minor Rank Cramer's rule Invertible matrix Gaussian elimination Transformation matrix Block matrix Numerical linear algebra Floating point Numerical stability BLAS Sparse matrix Comparison of linear algebra libraries Comparison of numerical analysis software Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Orthogonality&oldid=589939090" Categories: Abstract algebra Linear algebra Factoring Hidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters CS1 errors: coauthors without author Articles needing additional references from January 2010 All articles needing additional references Articles containing Ancient Greek-language text All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2012 Articles with unsourced statements from April 2011 Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ÇáÚÑÈíÉ ????????? Català ?e?tina Dansk Deutsch Espa?ol Esperanto ÝÇÑÓ? Français Italiano ????? Magyar Nederlands ??? Norsk bokm?l Norsk nynorsk Polski Român? ??????? Sloven??ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Svenska ?????????? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 9 January 2014 at 16:20. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view