Independence (mathematical logic) - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Independence (mathematical logic) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search In mathematical logic, independence refers to the unprovability of a sentence from other sentences. A sentence ? is independent of a given first-order theory T if T neither proves nor refutes ?; that is, it is impossible to prove ? from T, and it is also impossible to prove from T that ? is false. Sometimes, ? is said (synonymously) to be undecidable from T; this is not the same meaning of "decidability" as in a decision problem. A theory T is independent if each axiom in T is not provable from the remaining axioms in T. A theory for which there is an independent set of axioms is independently axiomatizable. Contents 1 Usage note 2 Independence results in set theory 3 See also 4 References Usage note[edit] Some authors say that ? is independent of T if T simply cannot prove ?, and do not necessarily assert by this that T cannot refute ?. These authors will sometimes say "? is independent of and consistent with T" to indicate that T can neither prove nor refute ?. Independence results in set theory[edit] Many interesting statements in set theory are independent of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory (ZF). The following statements in set theory are known to be independent of ZF, granting that ZF is consistent: The axiom of choice The continuum hypothesis and the generalised continuum hypothesis The Suslin conjecture The following statements (none of which have been proved false) cannot be proved in ZFC to be independent of ZFC, even if the added hypothesis is granted that ZFC is consistent. However, they cannot be proved in ZFC (granting that ZFC is consistent), and few working set theorists expect to find a refutation of them in ZFC. The existence of strongly inaccessible cardinals The existence of large cardinals The non-existence of Kurepa trees The following statements are inconsistent with the axiom of choice, and therefore with ZFC. However they are probably independent of ZF, in a corresponding sense to the above: They cannot be proved in ZF, and few working set theorists expect to find a refutation in ZF. However ZF cannot prove that they are independent of ZF, even with the added hypothesis that ZF is consistent. The Axiom of determinacy The axiom of real determinacy AD+ See also[edit] List of statements undecidable in ZFC Parallel postulate for an example in geometry Truth References[edit] Mendelson, Elliott (1997), An Introduction to Mathematical Logic (4th ed.), London: Chapman & Hall, ISBN 978-0-412-80830-2  Monk, J. Donald (1976), Mathematical Logic, Graduate Texts in Mathematics, Berlin, New York: Springer-Verlag, ISBN 978-0-387-90170-1  v t e Logic   Overview Academic areas Argumentation theory Axiology Critical thinking Computability theory Formal semantics History of logic Informal logic Logic in computer science Mathematical logic Mathematics Metalogic Metamathematics Model theory Philosophical logic Philosophy Philosophy of logic Philosophy of mathematics Proof theory Set theory Foundations Abduction Analytic truth Antinomy A priori Deduction Definition Description Induction Inference Logical form Logical consequence Logical truth Name Necessity Meaning Paradox Possible world Presupposition Probability Reason Reasoning Reference Semantics Statement Strict implication Substitution Syntax Truth Truth value Validity   Philosophical logic Critical thinking Informal logic Analysis Ambiguity Argument Belief Bias Credibility Evidence Explanation Explanatory power Fact Fallacy Inquiry Opinion Parsimony Premise Propaganda Prudence Reasoning Relevance Rhetoric Rigor Vagueness Theories of deduction Constructivism Dialetheism Fictionalism Finitism Formalism Intuitionism Logical atomism Logicism Nominalism Platonic realism Pragmatism Realism   Metalogic Metamathematics Cantor's theorem Church's theorem Church's thesis Consistency Effective method Foundations of mathematics G?del's completeness theorem G?del's incompleteness theorems Soundness Completeness Decidability Interpretation L?wenheim–Skolem theorem Metatheorem Satisfiability Independence Type–token distinction Use–mention distinction   Mathematical logic General Formal language Formation rule Formal system Deductive system Formal proof Formal semantics Well-formed formula Set Element Class Classical logic Axiom Natural deduction Rule of inference Relation Theorem Logical consequence Axiomatic system Type theory Symbol Syntax Theory Traditional logic Proposition Inference Argument Validity Cogency Syllogism Square of opposition Venn diagram Propositional calculus Boolean logic Boolean functions Propositional calculus Propositional formula Logical connectives Truth tables Predicate logic First-order Quantifiers Predicate Second-order Monadic predicate calculus Set theory Set Empty set Enumeration Extensionality Finite set Function Subset Power set Countable set Recursive set Domain Range Ordered pair Uncountable set Model theory Model Interpretation Non-standard model Finite model theory Truth value Validity Proof theory Formal proof Deductive system Formal system Theorem Logical consequence Rule of inference Syntax Computability theory Recursion Recursive set Recursively enumerable set Decision problem Church–Turing thesis Computable function Primitive recursive function   Non-classical logic Modal logic Alethic Axiologic Deontic Doxastic Epistemic Temporal Intuitionism Intuitionistic logic Constructive analysis Heyting arithmetic Intuitionistic type theory Constructive set theory Fuzzy logic Degree of truth Fuzzy rule Fuzzy set Fuzzy finite element Fuzzy set operations Substructural logic Structural rule Relevance logic Linear logic Paraconsistent logic Dialetheism Description logic Ontology Ontology language Many-valued logic Three-valued logic Four-valued logic ?ukasiewicz logic   Logicians Anderson Aristotle Averroes Avicenna Bain Barwise Bernays Boole Boolos Cantor Carnap Church Chrysippus Curry De Morgan Dummett Van Fraassen Frege Geach Gentzen G?del Hilbert Kleene Kripke Leibniz L?wenheim ?ukasiewicz Peano Peirce Putnam Quine Russell Schr?der Scotus Skolem Smullyan Tarski Turing Whitehead William of Ockham Wittgenstein Zermelo   Lists Topics Index of logic articles Mathematical logic Boolean algebra Set theory Other Logicians Rules of inference Paradoxes Fallacies Logic symbols   Common logical symbols &    ?    ¬    ~    ?    ?    ?    |    ?    ?    ?    ?    ?    ?    ?    ? Portal Category Outline WikiProject Talk changes Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Independence_(mathematical_logic)&oldid=540867432" Categories: Proof theory Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?e?tina Espa?ol Italiano Nederlands ??????? Svenska Edit links This page was last modified on 27 February 2013 at 07:02. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view