Statistics - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Statistics From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article is about the discipline. For other uses, see Statistics (disambiguation). It has been suggested that Mathematical statistics be merged into this article. (Discuss) Proposed since April 2013. Statistics is the study of the collection, organization, analysis, interpretation and presentation of data.[1][2] It deals with all aspects of data including the planning of data collection in terms of the design of surveys and experiments.[1] The word statistics, when referring to the scientific discipline, is singular, as in "Statistics is an art."[3] This should not be confused with the word statistic, referring to a quantity (such as mean or median) calculated from a set of data,[4] whose plural is statistics ("this statistic seems wrong" or "these statistics are misleading"). More probability density is found as one gets closer to the expected (mean) value in a normal distribution. Statistics used in standardized testing assessment are shown. The scales include standard deviations, cumulative percentages, percentile equivalents, Z-scores, T-scores, standard nines, and percentages in standard nines. Contents 1 Scope 2 History 3 Overview 4 Statistical methods 4.1 Experimental and observational studies 4.1.1 Experiments 4.1.2 Observational study 4.2 Levels of measurement 4.3 Key terms used in statistics 4.3.1 Null hypothesis 4.3.2 Error 4.3.3 Interval estimation 4.3.4 Significance 4.4 Examples 5 Specialized disciplines 6 Statistical computing 7 Misuse 8 Statistics applied to mathematics or the arts 9 See also 10 References Scope[edit] Statistics is alternately described as a mathematical body of science that pertains to the collection, analysis, interpretation or explanation, and presentation of data,[5] or as a branch of mathematics[6] concerned with collecting and interpreting data. Because of its empirical roots and its focus on applications, statistics is typically considered a distinct mathematical science rather than as a branch of mathematics.[7][8] Some tasks a statistician may involve are less mathematical; for example, ensuring that data collection is undertaken in a way that produces valid conclusions, coding data, or reporting results in ways comprehensible to those who must use them. Statisticians improve data quality by developing specific experiment designs and survey samples. Statistics itself also provides tools for prediction and forecasting the use of data through statistical models. Statistics is applicable to a wide variety of academic disciplines, including natural and social sciences, government, and business. Statistical consultants can help organizations and companies that don't have in-house expertise relevant to their particular questions. Statistical methods can summarize or describe a collection of data. This is called descriptive statistics. This is particularly useful in communicating the results of experiments and research. In addition, data patterns may be modeled in a way that accounts for randomness and uncertainty in the observations. These models can be used to draw inferences about the process or population under studyóa practice called inferential statistics. Inference is a vital element of scientific advance, since it provides a way to draw conclusions from data that are subject to random variation. To prove the propositions being investigated further, the conclusions are tested as well, as part of the scientific method. Descriptive statistics and analysis of the new data tend to provide more information as to the truth of the proposition. "Applied statistics" comprises descriptive statistics and the application of inferential statistics.[9][verification needed] Theoretical statistics concerns both the logical arguments underlying justification of approaches to statistical inference, as well encompassing mathematical statistics. Mathematical statistics includes not only the manipulation of probability distributions necessary for deriving results related to methods of estimation and inference, but also various aspects of computational statistics and the design of experiments. Statistics is closely related to probability theory, with which it is often grouped. The difference is, roughly, that probability theory starts from the given parameters of a total population to deduce probabilities that pertain to samples. Statistical inference, however, moves in the opposite directionóinductively inferring from samples to the parameters of a larger or total population. Statistics has many ties to machine learning and data mining. History[edit] Main articles: History of statistics and Founders of statistics Statistical methods date back at least to the 5th century BC. Some scholars pinpoint the origin of statistics to 1663, with the publication of Natural and Political Observations upon the Bills of Mortality by John Graunt.[10] Early applications of statistical thinking revolved around the needs of states to base policy on demographic and economic data, hence its stat- etymology. The scope of the discipline of statistics broadened in the early 19th century to include the collection and analysis of data in general. Today, statistics is widely employed in government, business, and natural and social sciences. Its mathematical foundations were laid in the 17th century with the development of the probability theory by Blaise Pascal and Pierre de Fermat. Probability theory arose from the study of games of chance. The method of least squares was first described by Adrien-Marie Legendre in 1805. Karl Pearson, the founder of mathematical statistics. The modern field of statistics emerged in the late 19th and early 20th century in three stages.[11] The first wave, at the turn of the century, was led by the work of Sir Francis Galton and Karl Pearson, who transformed statistics into a rigorous mathematical discipline used for analysis, not just in science, but in industry and politics as well. Galton's contributions to the field included introducing the concepts of standard deviation, correlation, regression and the application of these methods to the study of the variety of human characteristics - height, weight, eyelash length among others.[12] Pearson developed the Correlation coefficient, defined as a product-moment,[13] the method of moments for the fitting of distributions to samples and the Pearson's system of continuous curves, among many other things.[14] Galton and Pearson founded Biometrika as the first journal of mathematical statistics and biometry, and the latter founded the world's first university statistics department at University College London.[15] The second wave of the 1910s and 20s was initiated by William Gosset, and reached its culmination in the insights of Sir Ronald Fisher, who wrote the textbooks that were to define the academic discipline in universities around the world. Fisher's most important publications were his 1916 seminal paper The Correlation between Relatives on the Supposition of Mendelian Inheritance and his classic 1925 work Statistical Methods for Research Workers. His paper was the first to use the statistical term, variance. He developed rigorous experimental models and also originated the concepts of sufficiency, ancillary statistics, Fisher's linear discriminator and Fisher information.[16] The final wave, which mainly saw the refinement and expansion of earlier developments, emerged from the collaborative work between Egon Pearson and Jerzy Neyman in the 1930s. They introduced the concepts of "Type II" error, power of a test and confidence intervals. Jerzy Neyman in 1934 showed that stratified random sampling was in general a better method of estimation than purposive (quota) sampling.[17] Today, statistical methods are applied in all fields that involve decision making, for making accurate inferences from a collated body of data and for making decisions in the face of uncertainty based on statistical methodology. The use of modern computers has expedited large-scale statistical computation, and has also made possible new methods that are impractical to perform manually. Overview[edit] In applying statistics to a scientific, industrial, or societal problem, it is necessary to begin with a population or process to be studied. Populations can be diverse topics such as "all persons living in a country" or "every atom composing a crystal". A population can also be composed of observations of a process at various times, with the data from each observation serving as a different member of the overall group. Data collected about this kind of "population" constitutes what is called a time series. For practical reasons, a chosen subset of the population called a sample is studiedóas opposed to compiling data about the entire group (an operation called census). Once a sample that is representative of the population is determined, data is collected for the sample members in an observational or experimental setting. This data can then be subjected to statistical analysis, serving two related purposes: description and inference. Descriptive statistics summarize the population data by describing what was observed in the sample numerically or graphically. Numerical descriptors include mean and standard deviation for continuous data types (like heights or weights), while frequency and percentage are more useful in terms of describing categorical data (like race). Inferential statistics uses patterns in the sample data to draw inferences about the population represented, accounting for randomness. These inferences may take the form of: answering yes/no questions about the data (hypothesis testing), estimating numerical characteristics of the data (estimation), describing associations within the data (correlation) and modeling relationships within the data (for example, using regression analysis). Inference can extend to forecasting, prediction and estimation of unobserved values either in or associated with the population being studied; it can include extrapolation and interpolation of time series or spatial data, and can also include data mining.[18] "... it is only the manipulation of uncertainty that interests us. We are not concerned with the matter that is uncertain. Thus we do not study the mechanism of rain; only whether it will rain." Dennis Lindley, 2000[19] The concept of correlation is particularly noteworthy for the potential confusion it can cause. Statistical analysis of a data set often reveals that two variables (properties) of the population under consideration tend to vary together, as if they were connected. For example, a study of annual income that also looks at age of death might find that poor people tend to have shorter lives than affluent people. The two variables are said to be correlated; however, they may or may not be the cause of one another. The correlation phenomena could be caused by a third, previously unconsidered phenomenon, called a lurking variable or confounding variable. For this reason, there is no way to immediately infer the existence of a causal relationship between the two variables. (See Correlation does not imply causation.) To use a sample as a guide to an entire population, it is important that it truly represent the overall population. Representative sampling assures that inferences and conclusions can safely extend from the sample to the population as a whole. A major problem lies in determining the extent that the sample chosen is actually representative. Statistics offers methods to estimate and correct for any random trending within the sample and data collection procedures. There are also methods of experimental design for experiments that can lessen these issues at the outset of a study, strengthening its capability to discern truths about the population. Randomness is studied using the mathematical discipline of probability theory. Probability is used in "mathematical statistics" (alternatively, "statistical theory") to study the sampling distributions of sample statistics and, more generally, the properties of statistical procedures. The use of any statistical method is valid when the system or population under consideration satisfies the assumptions of the method. Misuse of statistics can produce subtle, but serious errors in description and interpretationósubtle in the sense that even experienced professionals make such errors, and serious in the sense that they can lead to devastating decision errors. For instance, social policy, medical practice, and the reliability of structures like bridges all rely on the proper use of statistics. See below for further discussion. Even when statistical techniques are correctly applied, the results can be difficult to interpret for those lacking expertise. The statistical significance of a trend in the dataówhich measures the extent to which a trend could be caused by random variation in the sampleómay or may not agree with an intuitive sense of its significance. The set of basic statistical skills (and skepticism) that people need to deal with information in their everyday lives properly is referred to as statistical literacy. Statistical methods[edit] Experimental and observational studies[edit] A common goal for a statistical research project is to investigate causality, and in particular to draw a conclusion on the effect of changes in the values of predictors or independent variables on dependent variables or response. There are two major types of causal statistical studies: experimental studies and observational studies. In both types of studies, the effect of differences of an independent variable (or variables) on the behavior of the dependent variable are observed. The difference between the two types lies in how the study is actually conducted. Each can be very effective. An experimental study involves taking measurements of the system under study, manipulating the system, and then taking additional measurements using the same procedure to determine if the manipulation has modified the values of the measurements. In contrast, an observational study does not involve experimental manipulation. Instead, data are gathered and correlations between predictors and response are investigated. Experiments[edit] The basic steps of a statistical experiment are: Planning the research, including finding the number of replicates of the study, using the following information: preliminary estimates regarding the size of treatment effects, alternative hypotheses, and the estimated experimental variability. Consideration of the selection of experimental subjects and the ethics of research is necessary. Statisticians recommend that experiments compare (at least) one new treatment with a standard treatment or control, to allow an unbiased estimate of the difference in treatment effects. Design of experiments, using blocking to reduce the influence of confounding variables, and randomized assignment of treatments to subjects to allow unbiased estimates of treatment effects and experimental error. At this stage, the experimenters and statisticians write the experimental protocol that shall guide the performance of the experiment and that specifies the primary analysis of the experimental data. Performing the experiment following the experimental protocol and analyzing the data following the experimental protocol. Further examining the data set in secondary analyses, to suggest new hypotheses for future study. Documenting and presenting the results of the study. Experiments on human behavior have special concerns. The famous Hawthorne study examined changes to the working environment at the Hawthorne plant of the Western Electric Company. The researchers were interested in determining whether increased illumination would increase the productivity of the assembly line workers. The researchers first measured the productivity in the plant, then modified the illumination in an area of the plant and checked if the changes in illumination affected productivity. It turned out that productivity indeed improved (under the experimental conditions). However, the study is heavily criticized today for errors in experimental procedures, specifically for the lack of a control group and blindness. The Hawthorne effect refers to finding that an outcome (in this case, worker productivity) changed due to observation itself. Those in the Hawthorne study became more productive not because the lighting was changed but because they were being observed.[citation needed] Observational study[edit] An example of an observational study is one that explores the correlation between smoking and lung cancer. This type of study typically uses a survey to collect observations about the area of interest and then performs statistical analysis. In this case, the researchers would collect observations of both smokers and non-smokers, perhaps through a case-control study, and then look for the number of cases of lung cancer in each group. Levels of measurement[edit] Main article: Levels of measurement There are four main levels of measurement used in statistics: nominal, ordinal, interval, and ratio.[20] Each of these have different degrees of usefulness in statistical research. Ratio measurements have both a meaningful zero value and the distances between different measurements defined; they provide the greatest flexibility in statistical methods that can be used for analyzing the data.[citation needed] Interval measurements have meaningful distances between measurements defined, but the zero value is arbitrary (as in the case with longitude and temperature measurements in Celsius or Fahrenheit). Ordinal measurements have imprecise differences between consecutive values, but have a meaningful order to those values. Nominal measurements have no meaningful rank order among values. Because variables conforming only to nominal or ordinal measurements cannot be reasonably measured numerically, sometimes they are grouped together as categorical variables, whereas ratio and interval measurements are grouped together as quantitative variables, which can be either discrete or continuous, due to their numerical nature. Key terms used in statistics[edit] Null hypothesis[edit] Interpretation of statistical information can often involve the development of a null hypothesis in that the assumption is that whatever is proposed as a cause has no effect on the variable being measured. The best illustration for a novice is the predicament encountered by a jury trial. The null hypothesis, H0, asserts that the defendant is innocent, whereas the alternative hypothesis, H1, asserts that the defendant is guilty. The indictment comes because of suspicion of the guilt. The H0 (status quo) stands in opposition to H1 and is maintained unless H1 is supported by evidence "beyond a reasonable doubt". However, "failure to reject H0" in this case does not imply innocence, but merely that the evidence was insufficient to convict. So the jury does not necessarily accept H0 but fails to reject H0. While one can not "prove" a null hypothesis, one can test how close it is to being true with a power test, which tests for type II errors. Error[edit] Working from a null hypothesis two basic forms of error are recognized: Type I errors where the null hypothesis is falsely rejected giving a "false positive". Type II errors where the null hypothesis fails to be rejected and an actual difference between populations is missed giving a "false negative". Error also refers to the extent to which individual observations in a sample differ from a central value, such as the sample or population mean. Many statistical methods seek to minimize the mean-squared error, and these are called "methods of least squares." Measurement processes that generate statistical data are also subject to error. Many of these errors are classified as random (noise) or systematic (bias), but other important types of errors (e.g., blunder, such as when an analyst reports incorrect units) can also be important. Interval estimation[edit] Main article: Interval estimation Most studies only sample part of a population, so results don't fully represent the whole population. Any estimates obtained from the sample only approximate the population value. Confidence intervals allow statisticians to express how closely the sample estimate matches the true value in the whole population. Often they are expressed as 95% confidence intervals. Formally, a 95% confidence interval for a value is a range where, if the sampling and analysis were repeated under the same conditions (yielding a different dataset), the interval would include the true (population) value 95% of the time. This does not imply that the probability that the true value is in the confidence interval is 95%. From the frequentist perspective, such a claim does not even make sense, as the true value is not a random variable. Either the true value is or is not within the given interval. However, it is true that, before any data are sampled and given a plan for how to construct the confidence interval, the probability is 95% that the yet-to-be-calculated interval will cover the true value: at this point, the limits of the interval are yet-to-be-observed random variables. One approach that does yield an interval that can be interpreted as having a given probability of containing the true value is to use a credible interval from Bayesian statistics: this approach depends on a different way of interpreting what is meant by "probability", that is as a Bayesian probability. Significance[edit] Main article: Statistical significance This section includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but the sources of this section remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (May 2012) Statistics rarely give a simple Yes/No type answer to the question asked of them. Interpretation often comes down to the level of statistical significance applied to the numbers and often refers to the probability of a value accurately rejecting the null hypothesis (sometimes referred to as the p-value). Referring to statistical significance does not necessarily mean that the overall result is significant in real world terms. For example, in a large study of a drug it may be shown that the drug has a statistically significant but very small beneficial effect, such that the drug is unlikely to help the patient noticeably. Criticisms arise because the hypothesis testing approach forces one hypothesis (the null hypothesis) to be "favored," and can also seem to exaggerate the importance of minor differences in large studies. A difference that is highly statistically significant can still be of no practical significance, but it is possible to properly formulate tests in account for this. (See also criticism of hypothesis testing.) One response involves going beyond reporting only the significance level to include the p-value when reporting whether a hypothesis is rejected or accepted. The p-value, however, does not indicate the size of the effect. A better and increasingly common approach is to report confidence intervals. Although these are produced from the same calculations as those of hypothesis tests or p-values, they describe both the size of the effect and the uncertainty surrounding it. Examples[edit] Some well-known statistical tests and procedures are: Analysis of variance (ANOVA) Chi-squared test Correlation Factor analysis MannñWhitney U Mean square weighted deviation (MSWD) Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient Regression analysis Spearman's rank correlation coefficient Student's t-test Time series analysis Specialized disciplines[edit] Main article: List of fields of application of statistics Statistical techniques are used in a wide range of types of scientific and social research, including: biostatistics, computational biology, computational sociology, network biology, social science, sociology and social research. Some fields of inquiry use applied statistics so extensively that they have specialized terminology. These disciplines include: Actuarial science (assesses risk in the insurance and finance industries) Applied information economics Biostatistics Business statistics Chemometrics (for analysis of data from chemistry) Data mining (applying statistics and pattern recognition to discover knowledge from data) Demography Econometrics Energy statistics Engineering statistics Epidemiology Geography and Geographic Information Systems, specifically in Spatial analysis Image processing Psychological statistics Reliability engineering Social statistics In addition, there are particular types of statistical analysis that have also developed their own specialised terminology and methodology: Bootstrap & Jackknife Resampling Multivariate statistics Statistical classification Statistical surveys Structured data analysis (statistics) Structural equation modelling Survival analysis Statistics in various sports, particularly baseball and cricket Statistics form a key basis tool in business and manufacturing as well. It is used to understand measurement systems variability, control processes (as in statistical process control or SPC), for summarizing data, and to make data-driven decisions. In these roles, it is a key tool, and perhaps the only reliable tool. Statistical computing[edit] gretl, an example of an open source statistical package Main article: Computational statistics The rapid and sustained increases in computing power starting from the second half of the 20th century have had a substantial impact on the practice of statistical science. Early statistical models were almost always from the class of linear models, but powerful computers, coupled with suitable numerical algorithms, caused an increased interest in nonlinear models (such as neural networks) as well as the creation of new types, such as generalized linear models and multilevel models. Increased computing power has also led to the growing popularity of computationally intensive methods based on resampling, such as permutation tests and the bootstrap, while techniques such as Gibbs sampling have made use of Bayesian models more feasible. The computer revolution has implications for the future of statistics with new emphasis on "experimental" and "empirical" statistics. A large number of both general and special purpose statistical software are now available. Misuse[edit] Main article: Misuse of statistics There is a general perception that statistical knowledge is all-too-frequently intentionally misused by finding ways to interpret only the data that are favorable to the presenter.[21] A mistrust and misunderstanding of statistics is associated with the quotation, "There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics". Misuse of statistics can be both inadvertent and intentional, and the book How to Lie With Statistics[21] outlines a range of considerations. In an attempt to shed light on the use and misuse of statistics, reviews of statistical techniques used in particular fields are conducted (e.g. Warne, Lazo, Ramos, and Ritter (2012)).[22] Ways to avoid misuse of statistics include using proper diagrams and avoiding bias.[23] Misuse can occur when conclusions are overgeneralized and claimed to be representative of more than they really are, often by either deliberately or unconsciously overlooking sampling bias.[24] Bar graphs are arguably the easiest diagrams to use and understand, and they can be made either by hand or with simple computer programs.[23] Unfortunately, most people do not look for bias or errors, so they are not noticed. Thus, people may often believe that something is true even if it is not well represented.[24] To make data gathered from statistics believable and accurate, the sample taken must be representative of the whole.[25] According to Huff, "The dependability of a sample can be destroyed by [bias]... allow yourself some degree of skepticism."[26] To assist in the understanding of statistics Huff proposed a series of questions to be asked in each case:[26] Who says so? (Does he/she have an axe to grind?) How does he/she know? (Does he/she have the resources to know the facts?) Whatís missing? (Does he/she give us a complete picture?) Did someone change the subject? (Does he/she offer us the right answer to the wrong problem?) Does it make sense? (Is his/her conclusion logical and consistent with what we already know?) Statistics applied to mathematics or the arts[edit] Traditionally, statistics was concerned with drawing inferences using a semi-standardized methodology that was "required learning" in most sciences. This has changed with use of statistics in non-inferential contexts. What was once considered a dry subject, taken in many fields as a degree-requirement, is now viewed enthusiastically. Initially derided by some mathematical purists, it is now considered essential methodology in certain areas. In number theory, scatter plots of data generated by a distribution function may be transformed with familiar tools used in statistics to reveal underlying patterns, which may then lead to hypotheses. Methods of statistics including predictive methods in forecasting are combined with chaos theory and fractal geometry to create video works that are considered to have great beauty. The process art of Jackson Pollock relied on artistic experiments whereby underlying distributions in nature were artistically revealed.[citation needed] With the advent of computers, statistical methods were applied to formalize such distribution-driven natural processes to make and analyze moving video art.[citation needed] Methods of statistics may be used predicatively in performance art, as in a card trick based on a Markov process that only works some of the time, the occasion of which can be predicted using statistical methodology. Statistics can be used to predicatively create art, as in the statistical or stochastic music invented by Iannis Xenakis, where the music is performance-specific. Though this type of artistry does not always come out as expected, it does behave in ways that are predictable and tunable using statistics. See also[edit] Find more about Statistics at Wikipedia's sister projects Definitions and translations from Wiktionary Media from Commons Quotations from Wikiquote Source texts from Wikisource Textbooks from Wikibooks Learning resources from Wikiversity Library resources about Statistics Resources in your library Main article: Outline of statistics Glossary of probability and statistics Notation in probability and statistics List of statistics articles List of academic statistical associations List of national and international statistical services List of important publications in statistics List of university statistical consulting centers List of statistical packages (software) Foundations of statistics List of statisticians Official statistics Multivariate analysis of variance References[edit] ^ a b Dodge, Y. (2006) The Oxford Dictionary of Statistical Terms, OUP. ISBN 0-19-920613-9 ^ The Free Online Dictionary ^ "Statistics". Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary.† ^ "Statistic". Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary.† ^ Moses, Lincoln E. (1986) Think and Explain with Statistics, Addison-Wesley, ISBN 978-0-201-15619-5 . pp. 1ñ3 ^ Hays, William Lee, (1973) Statistics for the Social Sciences, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, p.xii, ISBN 978-0-03-077945-9 ^ Moore, David (1992). "Teaching Statistics as a Respectable Subject". In F. Gordon and S. Gordon. Statistics for the Twenty-First Century. Washington, DC: The Mathematical Association of America. pp.†14ñ25. ISBN†978-0-88385-078-7.† ^ Chance, Beth L.; Rossman, Allan J. (2005). "Preface". Investigating Statistical Concepts, Applications, and Methods. Duxbury Press. ISBN†978-0-495-05064-3.† Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Anderson, D.R.; Sweeney, D.J.; Williams, T.A.. (1994) Introduction to Statistics: Concepts and Applications, pp. 5ñ9. West Group. ISBN 978-0-314-03309-3 ^ Willcox, Walter (1938) "The Founder of Statistics". Review of the International Statistical Institute 5(4):321ñ328. JSTOR†1400906 ^ Helen Mary Walker (1975). Studies in the history of statistical method. Arno Press.† ^ Galton F (1877) Typical laws of heredity. Nature 15: 492-553 ^ Stigler, S. M. (1989). "Francis Galton's Account of the Invention of Correlation". Statistical Science 4 (2): 73ñ79. doi:10.1214/ss/1177012580.† ^ Pearson, K. (1900). "On the Criterion that a given System of Deviations from the Probable in the Case of a Correlated System of Variables is such that it can be reasonably supposed to have arisen from Random Sampling". Philosophical Magazine Series 5 50 (302): 157ñ175. doi:10.1080/14786440009463897.† ^ "Karl Pearson (1857 - 1936)". Department of Statistical Science†ñ University College London.† ^ Agresti, Alan; David B. Hichcock (2005). "Bayesian Inference for Categorical Data Analysis". Statistical Methods & Applications 14 (14): 298. doi:10.1007/s10260-005-0121-y.† Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Neyman, J (1934) On the two different aspects of the representative method: The method of stratified sampling and the method of purposive selection. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society 97 (4) 557-625 JSTOR†2342192 ^ Breiman, Leo (2001). "Statistical Modelling: the two cultures". Statistical Science 16 (3): 199ñ231. doi:10.1214/ss/1009213726. MR†1874152. CiteSeerX: 10.1.1.156.4933.† ^ Lindley, D. (2000). "The Philosophy of Statistics". Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series D 49 (3): 293ñ337. doi:10.1111/1467-9884.00238. JSTOR†2681060.† ^ Thompson, B. (2006). Foundations of behavioral statistics. New York, NY: Guilford Press. ^ a b Huff, Darrell (1954) How to Lie With Statistics, WW Norton & Company, Inc. New York, NY. ISBN 0-393-31072-8 ^ Warne, R. Lazo, M., Ramos, T. and Ritter, N. (2012). Statistical Methods Used in Gifted Education Journals, 2006ñ2010. Gifted Child Quarterly, 56(3) 134ñ149. doi:10.1177/0016986212444122 ^ a b Drennan, Robert D. (2008). "Statistics in archaeology". In Pearsall, Deborah M. Encyclopedia of Archaeology. Elsevier Inc. pp.†2093ñ2100. ISBN†978-0-12-373962-9.† ^ a b Cohen, Jerome B. (December 1938). "Misuse of Statistics". Journal of the American Statistical Association (JSTOR) 33 (204): 657ñ674. doi:10.1080/01621459.1938.10502344.† Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Freund, J. F. (1988). "Modern Elementary Statistics". Credo Reference.† ^ a b Huff, Darrell; Irving Geis (1954). How to Lie with Statistics. New York: Norton. "The dependability of a sample can be destroyed by [bias]... allow yourself some degree of skepticism."† Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) v t e Statistics † Descriptive statistics Continuous data Location Mean (Arithmetic, Geometric, Harmonic) Median Mode Dispersion Range Standard deviation Coefficient of variation Percentile Interquartile range Shape Variance Skewness Kurtosis Moments L-moments Count data Index of dispersion Summary tables Grouped data Frequency distribution Contingency table Dependence Pearson product-moment correlation Rank correlation (Spearman's rho, Kendall's tau) Partial correlation Scatter plot Statistical graphics Bar chart Biplot Box plot Control chart Correlogram Fan chart Forest plot Histogram Pie chart QñQ plot Run chart Scatter plot Stemplot Radar chart † Data collection Designing studies Effect size Standard error Statistical power Sample size determination Survey methodology Sampling Stratified sampling Opinion poll Questionnaire Controlled experiment Design of experiments Randomized experiment Random assignment Replication Blocking Factorial experiment Optimal design Uncontrolled studies Natural experiment Quasi-experiment Observational study † Statistical inference Statistical theory Sampling distribution Order statistic Scan statistic Sufficiency Completeness Exponential family Permutation test (Randomization test) Empirical distribution Bootstrap U statistic Efficiency Asymptotics Robustness Frequentist inference Unbiased estimator (Mean unbiased minimum variance, Median unbiased) Biased estimators (Maximum likelihood, Method of moments, Minimum distance, Density estimation) Confidence interval Testing hypotheses Power Parametric tests (Likelihood-ratio, Wald, Score) Specific tests Z (normal) Student's t-test F Goodness of fit (Chi-squared, G, Sample source, sample normality, Skewness & kurtosis Normality, Model comparison, Model quality) Signed-rank (1-sample, 2-sample, 1-way anova) ShapiroñWilk KolmogorovñSmirnov Bayesian inference Bayesian probability Prior Posterior Credible interval Bayes factor Bayesian estimator Maximum posterior estimator † Correlation and regression analysis Correlation Pearson productñmoment correlation Partial correlation Confounding variable Coefficient of determination Regression analysis Errors and residuals Regression model validation Mixed effects models Simultaneous equations models MARS Linear regression Simple linear regression Ordinary least squares General linear model Bayesian regression Non-standard predictors Nonlinear regression Nonparametric Semiparametric Isotonic Robust Heteroscedasticity Homoscedasticity Generalized linear model Exponential families Logistic (Bernoulli) Binomial Poisson Partition of variance Analysis of variance (ANOVA) Analysis of covariance Multivariate ANOVA Degrees of freedom † Categorical, multivariate, time-series, or survival analysis Categorical data Cohen's kappa Contingency table Graphical model Log-linear model McNemar's test Multivariate statistics Multivariate regression Principal components Factor analysis Cluster analysis Classification Copulas Time series analysis General Decomposition Trend Stationarity Seasonal adjustment Exponential smoothing Cointegration Specific tests Granger causality Q-Statistic DurbinñWatson Time domain ACF PACF XCF ARMA model ARIMA model ARCH Vector autoregression Frequency domain Spectral density estimation Fourier analysis Survival analysis Survival function KaplanñMeier Logrank test Failure rate Proportional hazards models Accelerated failure time model † Applications Biostatistics Bioinformatics Clinical trials & studies Epidemiology Medical statistics Engineering statistics Chemometrics Methods engineering Probabilistic design Process & Quality control Reliability System identification Social statistics Actuarial science Census Crime statistics Demography Econometrics National accounts Official statistics Population Psychometrics Spatial statistics Cartography Environmental statistics Geographic information system Geostatistics Kriging Category Portal Outline Index v t e Areas of mathematics Areas Arithmetic Algebra elementary linear multilinear abstract Geometry discrete algebraic differential finite Trigonometry Calculus/Analysis Functional analysis Set theory Logic Category theory Number theory Combinatorics Graph theory Topology Lie theory Differential equations/Dynamical systems Mathematical physics Numerical analysis Computation Information theory Probability Mathematical statistics Mathematical optimization Control theory Game theory Representation theory Divisions Pure mathematics Applied mathematics Discrete mathematics Computational mathematics Category Mathematics portal Outline Lists Statistics portal Mathematics portal Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Statistics&oldid=590613683" Categories: Auxiliary sciences of history Data Evaluation methods Formal sciences Information Mathematical and quantitative methods (economics) Mathematical sciences Research methods Scientific method Statistics Hidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters Articles to be merged from April 2013 All articles to be merged All pages needing factual verification Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from March 2012 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2009 Articles with unsourced statements from November 2010 Articles lacking in-text citations from May 2012 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles with unsourced statements from March 2013 Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ???? «·⁄—»Ì… AragonÈs Az?rbaycanca ????? B‚n-l‚m-g? ????????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)˝ ????????? Bosanski Brezhoneg Catal‡ ?e?tina Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch ?????????? Eesti ???????? Espa?ol Esperanto Estreme?u Euskara ›«—”? F?royskt FranÁais Frysk Furlan Gaeilge Gaelg G‡idhlig Galego ?? ??? ?????? Hrvatski Ido Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua ??????/inuktitut ?slenska Italiano ????? Basa Jawa ????? ??????? ??????? KurdÓ ???????? Ladino ??? Latina Latvie?u LÎtzebuergesch Lietuvi? Limburgs Magyar ?????????? Malagasy ?????? ????? Bahasa Melayu MirandÈs ?????????? Nederlands ????? ???? ??? Norsk bokm?l Norsk nynorsk Occitan ????? O?zbekcha Å‰Ã«»? PiemontËis Polski PortuguÍs Rom‚n? ?????????? ??????? Scots Seeltersk Shqip Sicilianu ????? Simple English Sloven?ina Sloven??ina òÊ—œ? ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Basa Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarÁa ?????? ??? ?????? T¸rkÁe T¸rkmenÁe ?????????? «—œÊ VËneto Ti?ng Vi?t V?ro Winaray ?????? Yor˘b? ?? ?emait??ka ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 14 January 2014 at 03:56. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaÆ is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view