F1 score - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia F1 score From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from F-score) Jump to: navigation, search In statistical analysis of Binary classification, the F1 score (also F-score or F-measure) is a measure of a test's accuracy. It considers both the precision p and the recall r of the test to compute the score: p is the number of correct results divided by the number of all returned results and r is the number of correct results divided by the number of results that should have been returned. The F1 score can be interpreted as a weighted average of the precision and recall, where an F1 score reaches its best value at 1 and worst score at 0. The traditional F-measure or balanced F-score (F1 score) is the harmonic mean of precision and recall: . The general formula for positive real ? is: . The formula in terms of Type I and type II errors: . Two other commonly used F measures are the measure, which weights recall higher than precision, and the measure, which puts more emphasis on precision than recall. The F-measure was derived so that "measures the effectiveness of retrieval with respect to a user who attaches ? times as much importance to recall as precision".[1] It is based on Van Rijsbergen's effectiveness measure . Their relationship is where . Contents 1 Diagnostic Testing 2 Applications 3 G-measure 4 See also 5 References Diagnostic Testing[edit] This is related to the field of binary classification where recall is often termed as Sensitivity. There are several reason that the F1 score can be criticized in particular circumstances.[2] Condition (as determined by "Gold standard") Condition positive Condition negative Test outcome Test outcome positive True positive False positive (Type I error) Precision = ? True positive ? Test outcome positive Test outcome negative False negative (Type II error) True negative Negative predictive value = ? True negative ? Test outcome negative Sensitivity = ? True positive ? Condition positive Specificity = ? True negative ? Condition negative Accuracy Applications[edit] The F-score is often used in the field of information retrieval for measuring search, document classification, and query classification performance.[3] Earlier works focused primarily on the F1 score, but with the proliferation of large scale search engines, performance goals changed to place more emphasis on either precision or recall[4] and so is seen in wide application. The F-score is also used in machine learning.[5] Note, however, that the F-measures do not take the true negative rate into account, and that measures such as the Phi coefficient, Matthews correlation coefficient, Informedness or Cohen's kappa may be preferable to assess the performance of a binary classifier.[6] The F-score has been widely used in the natural language processing literature, such as the evaluation of named entity recognition,[7] Chinese word segmentation,[8] etc. F-score is usually measured by IV F-score and OOV F-score, where the IV means in vocabulary and OOV means out of vocabulary. IV and OOV are distinguished by whether the testing words exist in the training data. G-measure[edit] While the F-measure is the Harmonic mean of Recall and Precision the G-measure is the Geometric Mean of Recall and Precision. Information content corresponds to the Arithmetic Mean of the Information represented by Recall and Precision.[citation needed] . See also[edit] Precision and recall BLEU NIST (metric) METEOR ROUGE (metric) Word Error Rate (WER) Receiver operating characteristic Matthews correlation coefficient References[edit] ^ Van Rijsbergen, C. J. (1979). Information Retrieval (2nd ed.). Butterworth.  ^ POWERS, D.M.W. (February 27, 2011). "EVALUATION: FROM PRECISION, RECALL AND F-MEASURE TO ROC, INFORMEDNESS, MARKEDNESS & CORRELATION". Journal of Machine Learning Technologies 2 (1): 37–63.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) ^ Beitzel., Steven M. (2006). On Understanding and Classifying Web Queries (Ph.D. thesis). IIT. CiteSeerX: 10.1.1.127.634.  ^ X. Li, Y.-Y. Wang, and A. Acero (July 2008). "Learning query intent from regularized click graphs". Proceedings of the 31st SIGIR Conference.  ^ See, e.g., the evaluation of the CoNLL 2002 shared task. ^ Powers, David M W (2007/2011). "Evaluation: From Precision, Recall and F-Measure to ROC, Informedness, Markedness & Correlation". Journal of Machine Learning Technologies 2 (1): 37–63.  Check date values in: |date= (help) ^ Aaron L.-F. Han, Derek F. Wong, and Lidia S. Chao (June 2013). "Chinese Named Entity Recognition with Conditional Random Fields in the Light of Chinese Characteristics". Proceedings of the 20th IIS Conference. LNCS Vol. 7912, pp. 57–68. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.  ^ Aaron L.-F. Han, Derek F. Wong, Lidia S. Chao, Liangye He, Ling Zhu, and Shuo Li (September 2013). "A Study of Chinese Word Segmentation Based on the Characteristics of Chinese". Proceedings of the 25th GSCL Conference. LNCS Vol. 8105, pp. 111–118. Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.  Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=F1_score&oldid=591272448" Categories: Statistical natural language processing Evaluation of machine translation Statistical ratios Summary statistics for contingency tables Clustering criteria Hidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters CS1 errors: dates All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2014 Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Espa?ol Euskara ÝÇÑÓ? Edit links This page was last modified on 18 January 2014 at 14:16. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view