Spearman's rank correlation coefficient - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Spearman's rank correlation coefficient From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search A Spearman correlation of 1 results when the two variables being compared are monotonically related, even if their relationship is not linear. In contrast, this does not give a perfect Pearson correlation. When the data are roughly elliptically distributed and there are no prominent outliers, the Spearman correlation and Pearson correlation give similar values. The Spearman correlation is less sensitive than the Pearson correlation to strong outliers that are in the tails of both samples. That is because Spearman's rho limits the outlier to the value of its rank. In statistics, Spearman's rank correlation coefficient or Spearman's rho, named after Charles Spearman and often denoted by the Greek letter (rho) or as , is a nonparametric measure of statistical dependence between two variables. It assesses how well the relationship between two variables can be described using a monotonic function. If there are no repeated data values, a perfect Spearman correlation of +1 or ?1 occurs when each of the variables is a perfect monotone function of the other. Spearman's coefficient, like any correlation calculation, is appropriate for both continuous and discrete variables, including ordinal variables.[1][2] Contents 1 Definition and calculation 2 Related quantities 3 Interpretation 4 Example 5 Determining significance 6 Correspondence analysis based on Spearman's rho 7 See also 8 References 8.1 Further reading 9 External links Definition and calculation[edit] The Spearman correlation coefficient is defined as the Pearson correlation coefficient between the ranked variables.[3] For a sample of size n, the n raw scores are converted to ranks , and ? is computed from these: Identical values (rank ties or value duplicates) are assigned a rank equal to the average of their positions in the ascending order of the values. In the table below, notice how the rank of values that are the same is the mean of what their ranks would otherwise be: Variable Position in the ascending order Rank 0.8 1 1 1.2 2 1.2 3 2.3 4 4 18 5 5 In applications where duplicate values (ties) are known to be absent, a simpler procedure can be used to calculate ?.[3][4] Differences between the ranks of each observation on the two variables are calculated, and ? is given by: Note that this latter method should not be used in cases where the data set is truncated; that is, when the Spearman correlation coefficient is desired for the top X records (whether by pre-change rank or post-change rank, or both), the user should use the Pearson correlation coefficient formula given above. The standard error of the coefficient (?) was determined by Pearson in 1907 and Gosset in 1920. It is Related quantities[edit] Main article: Correlation and dependence There are several other numerical measures that quantify the extent of statistical dependence between pairs of observations. The most common of these is the Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient, which is a similar correlation method to Spearman's rank, that measures the “linear” relationships between the raw numbers rather than between their ranks. An alternative name for the Spearman rank correlation is the “grade correlation”;[5] in this, the “rank” of an observation is replaced by the “grade”. In continuous distributions, the grade of an observation is, by convention, always one half less than the rank, and hence the grade and rank correlations are the same in this case. More generally, the “grade” of an observation is proportional to an estimate of the fraction of a population less than a given value, with the half-observation adjustment at observed values. Thus this corresponds to one possible treatment of tied ranks. While unusual, the term “grade correlation” is still in use.[6] Interpretation[edit] Positive and negative Spearman rank correlations A positive Spearman correlation coefficient corresponds to an increasing monotonic trend between X and Y. A negative Spearman correlation coefficient corresponds to a decreasing monotonic trend between X and Y. The sign of the Spearman correlation indicates the direction of association between X (the independent variable) and Y (the dependent variable). If Y tends to increase when X increases, the Spearman correlation coefficient is positive. If Y tends to decrease when X increases, the Spearman correlation coefficient is negative. A Spearman correlation of zero indicates that there is no tendency for Y to either increase or decrease when X increases. The Spearman correlation increases in magnitude as X and Y become closer to being perfect monotone functions of each other. When X and Y are perfectly monotonically related, the Spearman correlation coefficient becomes 1. A perfect monotone increasing relationship implies that for any two pairs of data values Xi, Yi and Xj, Yj, that Xi ? Xj and Yi ? Yj always have the same sign. A perfect monotone decreasing relationship implies that these differences always have opposite signs. The Spearman correlation coefficient is often described as being "nonparametric". This can have two meanings. First, the fact that a perfect Spearman correlation results when X and Y are related by any monotonic function can be contrasted with the Pearson correlation, which only gives a perfect value when X and Y are related by a linear function. The other sense in which the Spearman correlation is nonparametric in that its exact sampling distribution can be obtained without requiring knowledge (i.e., knowing the parameters) of the joint probability distribution of X and Y. Example[edit] In this example, we will use the raw data in the table below to calculate the correlation between the IQ of a person with the number of hours spent in front of TV per week. IQ, Hours of TV per week, 106 7 86 0 100 27 101 50 99 28 103 29 97 20 113 12 112 6 110 17 First, we must find the value of the term . To do so we use the following steps, reflected in the table below. Sort the data by the first column (). Create a new column and assign it the ranked values 1,2,3,...n. Next, sort the data by the second column (). Create a fourth column and similarly assign it the ranked values 1,2,3,...n. Create a fifth column to hold the differences between the two rank columns ( and ). Create one final column to hold the value of column squared. IQ, Hours of TV per week, rank rank 86 0 1 1 0 0 97 20 2 6 ?4 16 99 28 3 8 ?5 25 100 27 4 7 ?3 9 101 50 5 10 ?5 25 103 29 6 9 ?3 9 106 7 7 3 4 16 110 17 8 5 3 9 112 6 9 2 7 49 113 12 10 4 6 36 With found, we can add them to find . The value of n is 10. So these values can now be substituted back into the equation, which evaluates to ? = -29/165 = ?0.175757575... with a P-value = 0.6864058 (using the t distribution) This low value shows that the correlation between IQ and hours spent watching TV is very low. In the case of ties in the original values, this formula should not be used. Instead, the Pearson correlation coefficient should be calculated on the ranks (where ties are given ranks, as described above). Determining significance[edit] One approach to testing whether an observed value of ? is significantly different from zero (r will always maintain ?1 ? r ? 1) is to calculate the probability that it would be greater than or equal to the observed r, given the null hypothesis, by using a permutation test. An advantage of this approach is that it automatically takes into account the number of tied data values there are in the sample, and the way they are treated in computing the rank correlation. Another approach parallels the use of the Fisher transformation in the case of the Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient. That is, confidence intervals and hypothesis tests relating to the population value ? can be carried out using the Fisher transformation: If F(r) is the Fisher transformation of r, the sample Spearman rank correlation coefficient, and n is the sample size, then is a z-score for r which approximately follows a standard normal distribution under the null hypothesis of statistical independence (? = 0).[7][8] One can also test for significance using which is distributed approximately as Student's t distribution with n ? 2 degrees of freedom under the null hypothesis.[9] A justification for this result relies on a permutation argument.[10] A generalization of the Spearman coefficient is useful in the situation where there are three or more conditions, a number of subjects are all observed in each of them, and it is predicted that the observations will have a particular order. For example, a number of subjects might each be given three trials at the same task, and it is predicted that performance will improve from trial to trial. A test of the significance of the trend between conditions in this situation was developed by E. B. Page[11] and is usually referred to as Page's trend test for ordered alternatives. Correspondence analysis based on Spearman's rho[edit] Classic correspondence analysis is a statistical method that gives a score to every value of two nominal variables. In this way the Pearson correlation coefficient between them is maximized. There exists an equivalent of this method, called grade correspondence analysis, which maximizes Spearman's rho or Kendall's tau.[12] See also[edit] Statistics portal Kendall tau rank correlation coefficient Chebyshev's sum inequality, rearrangement inequality (These two articles may shed light on the mathematical properties of Spearman's ?.) References[edit] ^ Scale types ^ Lehman, Ann (2005). Jmp For Basic Univariate And Multivariate Statistics: A Step-by-step Guide. Cary, NC: SAS Press. p. 123. ISBN 1-59047-576-3.  ^ a b Myers, Jerome L.; Well, Arnold D. (2003). Research Design and Statistical Analysis (2nd ed.). Lawrence Erlbaum. p. 508. ISBN 0-8058-4037-0.  ^ Maritz, J. S. (1981). Distribution-Free Statistical Methods. Chapman & Hall. p. 217. ISBN 0-412-15940-6.  ^ Yule, G. ?U.; Kendall, M. ?G. (1968). An Introduction to the Theory of Statistics (14th ed.). Charles Griffin & Co. p. 268.  ^ Piantadosi, J.; Howlett, P.; Boland, J. (2007). "Matching the grade correlation coefficient using a copula with maximum disorder". Journal of Industrial and Management Optimization 3 (2): 305–312.  ^ Choi, S. C. (1977). "Tests of Equality of Dependent Correlation Coefficients". Biometrika 64 (3): 645–647. doi:10.1093/biomet/64.3.645.  ^ Fieller, E. C.; Hartley, H. O.; Pearson, E. S. (1957). "Tests for rank correlation coefficients. I". Biometrika 44: 470–481.  ^ Press; Vettering; Teukolsky; Flannery (1992). Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing (2nd ed.). p. 640.  ^ Kendall, M. G.; Stuart, A. (1973). The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Volume 2: Inference and Relationship. Griffin. ISBN 0-85264-215-6.  (Sections 31.19, 31.21) ^ Page, E. B. (1963). "Ordered hypotheses for multiple treatments: A significance test for linear ranks". Journal of the American Statistical Association 58 (301): 216–230. doi:10.2307/2282965.  ^ Kowalczyk, T.; Pleszczy?ska E. , Ruland F. (eds.) (2004). Grade Models and Methods for Data Analysis with Applications for the Analysis of Data Populations. Studies in Fuzziness and Soft Computing 151. Berlin Heidelberg New York: Springer Verlag. ISBN 978-3-540-21120-4.  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) Further reading[edit] Corder GW, Foreman DI (2009). Nonparametric Statistics for Non-Statisticians: A Step-by-Step Approach. Hoboken, N.J.: Wiley. ISBN 978-0-470-4546-19. OCLC 276228975.  Spearman C (1904). "The proof and measurement of association between two things". Amer. J. Psychol. 15: 72–101.  Kendall MG (1970). Rank correlation methods (4th ed.). London: Griffin. ISBN 978-0-852-6419-96. OCLC 136868.  Hollander M, Wolfe DA (1973). Nonparametric statistical methods. New York: Wiley. ISBN 978-0-471-40635-8. OCLC 520735.  Caruso JC, Cliff N (1997). "Empirical size, coverage, and power of confidence intervals for Spearman's Rho". Ed. and Psy. Meas. 57: 637–654.  External links[edit] Wikiversity has learning materials about Spearman's rank correlation coefficient "Understanding Correlation vs. Copulas in Excel" by Eric Torkia, Technology Partnerz 2011 Table of critical values of ? for significance with small samples Spearman's rank online calculator Chapter 3 part 1 shows the formula to be used when there are ties Spearman's rank correlation: Simple notes for students with an example of usage by biologists and a spreadsheet for Microsoft Excel for calculating it (a part of materials for a Research Methods in Biology course). v t e Statistics   Descriptive statistics Continuous data Location Mean (Arithmetic, Geometric, Harmonic) Median Mode Dispersion Range Standard deviation Coefficient of variation Percentile Interquartile range Shape Variance Skewness Kurtosis Moments L-moments Count data Index of dispersion Summary tables Grouped data Frequency distribution Contingency table Dependence Pearson product-moment correlation Rank correlation (Spearman's rho, Kendall's tau) Partial correlation Scatter plot Statistical graphics Bar chart Biplot Box plot Control chart Correlogram Fan chart Forest plot Histogram Pie chart Q–Q plot Run chart Scatter plot Stemplot Radar chart   Data collection Designing studies Effect size Standard error Statistical power Sample size determination Survey methodology Sampling Stratified sampling Opinion poll Questionnaire Controlled experiment Design of experiments Randomized experiment Random assignment Replication Blocking Factorial experiment Optimal design Uncontrolled studies Natural experiment Quasi-experiment Observational study   Statistical inference Statistical theory Sampling distribution Order statistic Scan statistic Sufficiency Completeness Exponential family Permutation test (Randomization test) Empirical distribution Bootstrap U statistic Efficiency Asymptotics Robustness Frequentist inference Unbiased estimator (Mean unbiased minimum variance, Median unbiased) Biased estimators (Maximum likelihood, Method of moments, Minimum distance, Density estimation) Confidence interval Testing hypotheses Power Parametric tests (Likelihood-ratio, Wald, Score) Specific tests Z (normal) Student's t-test F Goodness of fit (Chi-squared, G, Sample source, sample normality, Skewness & kurtosis Normality, Model comparison, Model quality) Signed-rank (1-sample, 2-sample, 1-way anova) Shapiro–Wilk Kolmogorov–Smirnov Bayesian inference Bayesian probability Prior Posterior Credible interval Bayes factor Bayesian estimator Maximum posterior estimator   Correlation and regression analysis Correlation Pearson product–moment correlation Partial correlation Confounding variable Coefficient of determination Regression analysis Errors and residuals Regression model validation Mixed effects models Simultaneous equations models MARS Linear regression Simple linear regression Ordinary least squares General linear model Bayesian regression Non-standard predictors Nonlinear regression Nonparametric Semiparametric Isotonic Robust Heteroscedasticity Homoscedasticity Generalized linear model Exponential families Logistic (Bernoulli) Binomial Poisson Partition of variance Analysis of variance (ANOVA) Analysis of covariance Multivariate ANOVA Degrees of freedom   Categorical, multivariate, time-series, or survival analysis Categorical data Cohen's kappa Contingency table Graphical model Log-linear model McNemar's test Multivariate statistics Multivariate regression Principal components Factor analysis Cluster analysis Classification Copulas Time series analysis General Decomposition Trend Stationarity Seasonal adjustment Exponential smoothing Cointegration Specific tests Granger causality Q-Statistic Durbin–Watson Time domain ACF PACF XCF ARMA model ARIMA model ARCH Vector autoregression Frequency domain Spectral density estimation Fourier analysis Survival analysis Survival function Kaplan–Meier Logrank test Failure rate Proportional hazards models Accelerated failure time model   Applications Biostatistics Bioinformatics Clinical trials & studies Epidemiology Medical statistics Engineering statistics Chemometrics Methods engineering Probabilistic design Process & Quality control Reliability System identification Social statistics Actuarial science Census Crime statistics Demography Econometrics National accounts Official statistics Population Psychometrics Spatial statistics Cartography Environmental statistics Geographic information system Geostatistics Kriging Category Portal Outline Index Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Spearman%27s_rank_correlation_coefficient&oldid=584384667" Categories: Covariance and correlation Non-parametric statistics Statistical dependence Statistical tests Hidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Català ?e?tina Deutsch ???????? Espa?ol Euskara Français Italiano ????? Latvie?u Nederlands ??? Polski Português Simple English Sloven??ina Türkçe ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 3 December 2013 at 16:38. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view