Joseph Marie Jacquard - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Joseph Marie Jacquard From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Joseph Marie Jacquard Born 7 July 1752 (1752-07-07) Lyon Died 7 August 1834 (1834-08-08) Oullins (Rhône) Nationality French Education Worked as apprentice and learned bookbinding Occupation Merchant, weaver, inventor Known for Programmable loom Joseph Marie Charles dit (called or nicknamed) Jacquard (7 July 1752 – 7 August 1834) was a French weaver and merchant. He played an important role in the development of the earliest programmable loom (the "Jacquard loom"), which in turn played an important role in the development of other programmable machines, such as computers. Contents 1 Biography 2 Jacquard loom 3 References 4 Further reading 5 External links Biography[edit] This section appears to contradict itself about the timeline. Please see the talk page for more information. (January 2013) Jacquard’s surname was not technically “Jacquard”; it was Charles. In his grandfather’s generation, several branches of the Charles family lived in Lyon’s Couzon-au-Mont d’Or suburb (on Lyon’s north side, along the Saône River). To distinguish the various branches, they were given nicknames; Joseph’s branch was dubbed the “Jacquard” Charles. Thus, Joseph’s grandfather was Barthélemy Charles dit [called] Jacquard.[1][2] Joseph Marie Charles dit Jacquard was born in Lyon, France on 7 July 1752. He was one of nine children of Jean Charles dit Jacquard, a master weaver of Lyon, and his wife, Antoinette Rive. However, only Joseph and his sister Clémence (born 7 November 1747) survived to adulthood. Although his father was a man of property, Joseph received no formal schooling and remained illiterate until he was 13. He was finally taught by his brother-in-law, Jean-Marie Barret, who ran a printing and bookselling business. Barret also introduced Joseph to learned societies and scholars.[3] His mother died in 1762, and when his father died in 1772, Joseph inherited his father’s house, looms and workshop as well as a vineyard and quarry in Couzon-au-Mont d’Or. Joseph then dabbled in real estate. In 1778, he listed his occupations as master weaver and silk merchant.[3] Jacquard’s occupation at this time is problematic because by 1780 most silk weavers did not work independently; instead, they worked for wages from silk merchants, and Jacquard was not registered as a silk merchant in Lyon.[4] There is some confusion about Jacquard’s early work history. British economist Sir John Bowring met Jacquard, who told Bowring that at one time he had been a maker of straw hats.[5] Eymard claimed that before becoming involved in the weaving of silk, Jacquard was a type-founder (a maker of printers’ type), a soldier, a bleacher (blanchisseur) of straw hats, and a lime burner (a maker of lime for mortar).[6] Barlow claims that before marrying, Jacquard had worked for a bookbinder, a type-founder, and a maker of cutlery. After marrying, Jacquard tried cutlery making, type-founding, and weaving.[7] However, Barlow does not cite any sources for that information. Ballot stated that Jacquard initially helped his father operate his loom, but the work proved too arduous, so Jacquard was placed first with a bookbinder and then with a maker of printers' type.[8] On 26 July 1778, Joseph married Claudine Boichon. She was a middle-class widow from Lyon who owned property and had a substantial dowry. However, Joseph soon fell deeply into debt and was brought to court. Barlow claims that after Jacquard's father died, Jacquard started a figure-weaving business but failed and lost all his wealth. However, Barlow cites no sources to support his claim.[7] To settle his debts, he was obliged to sell his inheritance and to appropriate his wife’s dowry. Fortunately, his wife retained a house in Oullins (on Lyon’s south side, along the Rhone River), where the couple resided. On 19 April 1779, the couple had their only child, a son, Jean Marie.[3] Beyond his name and his date of birth, nothing is known about Jacquard's son. Charles Ballot stated that after the rebellion of Lyon in 1793 was suppressed, Jacquard and his son escaped from the city by joining the revolutionary army. They fought together in the Rhine campaign of 1795, serving in the Rhone-and-Loire battalion under General Jean Charles Pichegru. Jacquard's son was killed outside of Heidelberg. However, Ballot repeated rumors and was a sloppy historian. For example, he stated that Jacquard's wife Claudette Boichon was the daughter of Antoine-Hélon Boichon, a master swordsmith, whereas Claudette was a widow who had been married to a Mr. Boichon before she married Jacquard.[9] By 1800, Joseph began to dabble in inventing: a treadle loom in 1800, a loom to weave fishing nets in 1803, and starting in 1804, the “Jacquard” loom, which would weave patterned silk automatically. However, none of his inventions operated well and thus were unsuccessful.[4] In 1801, Jacquard exhibited his invention at the industrial exhibition in Paris; and in 1803 he was summoned to Paris and attached to the Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers. A loom by Jacques de Vaucanson on display there suggested various improvements in his own, which he gradually perfected to its final state. Although his invention was fiercely opposed by the silk-weavers, who feared that its introduction, owing to the saving of labour, would deprive them of their livelihood, its advantages secured its general adoption, and by 1812 there were 11,000 Jacquard looms in use in France. This claim has been challenged: Initially few Jacquard looms were sold because of problems with the punched card mechanism. Only after 1815 — once Jean Antoine Breton had solved the problems with the punched card mechanism — did sales of looms increase.[10][11][12] The loom was declared public property in 1806, and Jacquard was rewarded with a pension and a royalty on each machine. Jacquard died at Oullins (Rhône), 7 August 1834.[13] Six years later, a statue was erected to him in Lyon, on the site where his 1801 exhibit loom was destroyed. Jacquard loom[edit] Main article: Jacquard loom Jacquard loom on display Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester, England The Jacquard Loom is a mechanical loom that has holes punched in pasteboard, each row of which corresponds to one row of the design. Multiple rows of holes are punched on each card and the many cards that compose the design of the textile are strung together in order. It is based on earlier inventions by the Frenchmen Basile Bouchon (1725), Jean-Baptiste Falcon (1728) and Jacques Vaucanson (1740).[14] In order to discuss the Jacquard loom, some basic knowledge of weaving is necessary. In order to make a strip of cloth, parallel threads (the “warp”) are stretched across a rectangular frame. To make a plain piece of cloth, every other warp thread is raised slightly. A thread (the “weft thread”) is then passed (at a right angle to the warp) through the space (the “shed”) between the lower and the upper warp threads. The raised warp threads are then lowered and the previously lower warp threads are raised, and the weft thread is then passed through the shed in the opposite direction. The process can then be repeated indefinitely. The Most Famous Image in the Early History of Computing[15] This portrait of Jacquard was woven in silk on a Jacquard loom and required 24,000 punched cards to create (1839). It was only produced to order. Charles Babbage owned one of these portraits; it inspired him in using perforated cards in his analytical engine.[16] It is in the collection of the Science Museum in London, England.[4] However, by raising different warp threads during weaving, it is possible to make fabrics of different textures or to vary the texture, or even the color, of the cloth in order to create patterns or designs. When elaborate patterns or designs were to be woven manually, selecting the warp threads that were to be raised became a slow, complicated procedure that was subject to error. Jacquard’s loom was intended to automate this process. Jacquard was not the first man to try to automate the process of weaving. In 1725 Basile Bouchon invented an attachment for draw looms which used a broad strip of punched paper to select the warp threads that would be raised during weaving.[17] Specifically, Bouchon’s innovation involved a row of hooks. The curved portion of each hook snagged a string that could raise one of the warp threads, whereas the straight portion of each hook pressed against the punched paper, which was draped around a perforated cylinder. Whenever the hook pressed against the solid paper, pushing the cylinder forward would raise the corresponding warp thread; whereas whenever the hook met a hole in the paper, pushing the cylinder forward would allow the hook to slip inside the cylinder and the corresponding warp thread would not be raised. Bouchon’s loom was unsuccessful because it could handle only a modest number of warp threads.[18][19] By 1737, a master silk weaver of Lyon, Jean Falcon, had increased the number of warp threads that the loom could handle automatically. He developed an attachment for looms in which Bouchon’s paper strip was replaced by a chain of punched cards, which could deflect multiple rows of hooks simultaneously. Like Bouchon, Falcon used a “cylinder” (actually, a four-sided perforated tube) to hold each card in place while it was pressed against the rows of hooks.[20] His loom was modestly successful; about 40 such looms had been sold by 1762.[21] In 1741, Jacques de Vaucanson, a French inventor who designed and built automated mechanical toys, was appointed inspector of silk factories.[22] Between 1747 and 1750,[23] he tried to automate Bouchon’s mechanism. In Vaucanson's mechanism, the hooks that were to lift the warp threads were selected by long pins or "needles", which were pressed against a sheet of punched paper that was draped around a perforated cylinder. Specifically, each hook passed at a right angle through an eyelet of a needle. When the cylinder was pressed against the array of needles, some of the needles, pressing against solid paper, would move forward, which in turn would tilt the corresponding hooks. The hooks that were tilted would not be raised, so the warp threads that were snagged by those hooks would remain in place; however, the hooks that were not tilted, would be raised, and the warp threads that were snagged by those hooks would also be raised. By placing his mechanism above the loom, Vaucanson eliminated the complicated system of weights and cords (tail cords, simple, pulley box, etc.) that had been used to select which warp threads were to be raised during weaving. Vaucanson also added a ratchet mechanism to advance the punched paper each time that the cylinder was pushed against the row of hooks.[24][25][26][27] However, Vaucanson’s loom was not successful. Its mechanism was not successful probably because, like Bouchon’s mechanism, it could not control enough warp threads — and hence it could not weave patterns that were sufficiently elaborate — to justify the cost of the mechanism.[23] In order to stimulate the French textile industry, which was competing with Britain’s industrialized textile industry, Napoleon Bonaparte placed large orders for Lyon’s silk, starting in 1802.[12] In 1804,[28] at the urging of Lyon silk merchant Gabriel Detilleu, Jacquard studied Vaucanson’s loom, which was stored at the Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers in Paris.[4] By 1805 Jacquard had eliminated the paper strip from Vaucanson’s mechanism and returned to using Falcon’s chain of punched cards.[29] The potential of Jacquard’s loom was immediately recognized. On April 12, 1805, emperor Napoleon and empress Josephine visited Lyon, and during their tour, they viewed Jacquard’s new loom. On April 15, 1805, the emperor granted the patent for Jacquard’s loom to the city of Lyon. In return, Jacquard received a lifelong pension of 3,000 francs; furthermore, he received a royalty of 50 francs for each loom that was bought and used during the period from 1805 through 1811.[12] References[edit] ^ Delve, Janet. "Joseph Marie Jacquard: Inventor of the Jacquard Loom," IEEE Annals of the History of Computing, vol. 29, no. 4, pp. 98–102 (October–December 2007); see p. 98. ^ Huchard, Jean. "Entre la légende et la réalité: La famille de Joseph Marie Charles dit Jacquard" [Between legend and reality: The family of Joseph Marie Charles known as Jacquard], part 1, Bulletin Municipal Officiel de la Ville de Lyon. ^ a b c Delve (2007), p. 98. ^ a b c d Delve (2007), p. 99. ^ Barlow, Alfred. The History and Principles of Weaving by Hand and by Power, London: Sampson Low, Marston, Searle, & Rivington, 1878, p. 144. ^ Eymard, Paul. Historique du Métier Jacquard, Lyon, France: Imprimerie de Barret, 1863, p. 9. Reprinted in Annales des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles d'Agriculture et d'Industrie, Lyon, France, 3rd series, vol. 7, 1863, pp. 34–56. However, Eymard does not cite his source for this information. ^ a b Barlow (1878), p. 140. ^ Ballot, Charles. “L’?volution du Métier Lyonnais” in Revue d'histoire de Lyon: ?tudes, Documents, Bibliographie, Lyon, France: A. Rey et Co., 1913, vol. 2, p. 39. ^ Ballot (1913), p. 40. ^ Huchard, Jean. "Entre la légende et la réalité: Les tribulations de la mécanique de Joseph Marie Jacquard" [Between legend and reality: The problems of the Joseph Marie Jacquard mechanism], Bulletin Municipal de la Ville de Lyon, No. 5219, 3 May 1998. ^ Huchard, Jean. "Entre la légende et la réalité: Le véritable inventeur de la mécanique dite à la Jacquard" [Between legend and reality: The true inventor of the so-called Jacquard mechanism], Bulletin Municipal de la Ville de Lyon, No. 5220, 10 May 1998. ^ a b c Delve (2007), p. 100. ^ Encyclop?dia Britannica, 11th Edition ^ Razy, C. (1913), p.120. ^ From cave paintings to the internet at HistoryofScience.com ^ Hyman, Anthony, ed. Science and Reform: Selected Works of Charles Babbage, Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1989, p. 298. ^ Kreindl, Fritz (8 May 1935) "Jacquards Prinzip bereits 200 Jahre alt?" [Jacquard principle already 200 years old?], Sonderdruck aus Melliand Textilberichte, Heidelberg 2, pp. 1–2. Kreindl claims that in or before 1740, a member of the Ortner family of Muhlviertel in Upper Austria independently invented a mechanism similar to Bouchon's, except that instead of using perforated paper, the mechanism was controlled by a strip of canvas to which pegs had been attached. ^ Usher, Abbott Payson. A History of Mechanical Invention, revised ed., Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, 1954, p. 290. ^ Bell, T. F. Jacquard Weaving and Designing, London: Longmans, Green, and Co., 1895, pp. 18–20. Detailed illustrations of Bouchon’s mechanism and explanations of its operation. ^ Bell (1895), pp. 19–22. Detailed illustrations of Falcon’s mechanism and explanations of its operation. ^ Usher (1954), p. 291. ^ Barlow (1878), p. 146. ^ a b Pérez, Liliane. “Inventing in a world of guilds: Silk fabrics in eighteenth-century Lyon” in Guilds, Innovation, and the European Economy, 1400–1800, Stephan R. Epstein and Maarten Roy Prak, ed.s, (Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 2008), p. 242. ^ Usher (1954), p. 292. ^ Bell (1895), pp. 22–23. ^ Barlow (1878), p. 141. ^ Photograph of a replica of Vaucanson’s loom, Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers in Paris ^ Eymard (1863), p. 11. ^ Bell (1895), p. 23. Further reading[edit] Essinger, James (2004). Jacquard's Web: How a Hand-Loom Led to the Birth of the Information Age. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  Razy, C. (1913). ?tude analytique des petits modèles de métiers exposés au musée des tissus. Lyon, France: Musée historique des tissus.  External links[edit] Joseph Marie Jacquard Authority control WorldCat VIAF: 20478300 LCCN: nr96018644 ISNI: 0000 0000 6675 6186 GND: 118877879 Persondata Name Jacquard, Jean-Marie Alternative names Short description French inventor Date of birth 7 July 1752 Place of birth Lyon Date of death 7 August 1834 Place of death Oullins (Rhône) Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Joseph_Marie_Jacquard&oldid=588959645" Categories: French inventors History of the textile industry Hat makers 1752 births 1834 deaths Hidden categories: Articles with hCards Self-contradictory articles from January 2013 All self-contradictory articles Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ÇáÚÑÈíÉ Az?rbaycanca ?????????? Català ?e?tina Deutsch Espa?ol Euskara Français Gaeilge Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Magyar Nederlands ??? Polski Português Român? ??????? Sloven?ina ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska Tagalog Türkçe Ti?ng Vi?t Winaray ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 3 January 2014 at 11:05. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view