Calvin Mooers - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Calvin Mooers From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Calvin Northrup Mooers Born 1919 Died 1 December 1994 Cambridge, Massachusetts Nationality American Occupation Computer Scientist Calvin Northrup Mooers (1919 – December 1, 1994), was an American computer scientist known for his work in information retrieval and for the programming language TRAC. Contents 1 Early life 2 Mooers Law 3 TRAC 4 Awards 5 Death 6 References 7 External links Early life[edit] Mooers was a native of Minneapolis, Minnesota, attended the University of Minnesota, and received a bachelor's degree in mathematics in 1941. He worked at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory from 1941 to 1946, and then attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he earned a master's degree in mathematics and physics. At M.I.T. he developed a mechanical system using superimposed codes of descriptors for information retrieval called Zatocoding. He founded the Zator Company in 1947 to market this idea, and pursued work in information theory, information retrieval, and artificial intelligence. He coined the term "information retrieval" using it first in a conference paper presented in March 1950.[1] See also a short paper published later that year from Mooers.[2] Mooers Law[edit] He coined "Mooers' Law" (not to be confused with Moore's Law) and its corollary in 1959: An information retrieval system will tend not to be used whenever it is more painful and troublesome for a customer to have information than for him not to have it. Where an information retrieval system tends not to be used, a more capable information retrieval system may tend to be used even less. TRAC[edit] He founded the Rockford Research Institute in 1961, where he developed the TRAC programming language, and attempted to control its distribution and development using trademark law and a unique invocation of copyright.[3] (At the time patent law would not allow him to control what he saw as his intellectual property and profit from it.) The trademark strategy was later used by Ada. Awards[edit] Mooers received the American Society for Information Science's Award of Merit in 1978. The citation reads in part: He was a participant in early developmental work on digital computers, a researcher, author, and implementer of applications in information retrieval; and a prophet in the 1950s describing the future importance of what is now called computer networks and distributive processing, and daring to predict that machines could simulate thought processes in retrieving computerized information. In 1947, he proposed the Zator, an electronic, film-scanning retrieval machine, and made the first proposal to use the Boolean operations or, and, and not to prescribe selections in retrieval machines. He developed his own Zatocoding System in 1948 using superimposed subject codes on edge-notched cards. He coined the term "Information Retrieval" in 1950, and went on from there to obtain several patents in information retrieval and signaling, produce a text-handling language (TRAC), author some 200 publications, and form one of the first companies whose only concern was information. His thinking has affected all who are in the field of Information and his early ideas are now incorporated into today's reality. Death[edit] Mooers died in 1994 in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Mooers' article critical of John Vincent Atanasoff and his brief tenure as chief of a failed computer construction project at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory during World War II was published posthumously in the May–June 2001 IEEE Annals of the History of Computing. His daughter Edith was on the original incarnation of ZOOM on PBS. References[edit] ^ Mooers, C. (March 1950). "The theory of digital handling of non-numerical information and its implications to machine economics". Proceedings of the meeting of the Association for Computing Machinery at Rutgers University.  ^ Mooers, C. (1950). "Information retrieval viewed as temporal signaling". Proceedings of the International Congress of Mathematicians. Vol. 1, S.572-573.  ^ http://www.resistors.org/index.php/History_of_the_R.E.S.I.S.T.O.R.S. Mooers, Calvin N. (April 2001). "The Computer Project at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory" (PDF). IEEE Annals of the History of Computing (IEEE) 23 (2): 51–67. doi:10.1109/MAHC.2001.10002. ISSN 1058-6180.  External links[edit] Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Calvin Mooers Calvin N. Mooers Papers, 1930-1992 at the Charles Babbage Institute, University of Minnesota. Oral history interview with Calvin N. Mooers and Charlotte D. Mooers at the Charles Babbage Institute. Interview discusses information retrieval and programming language research from World War II through the early 1990s. Authority control VIAF: 13835449 ISNI: 0000 0001 1039 9789 Persondata Name Mooers, Calvin Alternative names Short description Date of birth 1919 Place of birth Date of death December 1, 1994 Place of death Cambridge, Massachusetts Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Calvin_Mooers&oldid=590848274" Categories: 1919 births 1994 deaths American computer scientists University of Minnesota alumni Hidden categories: Articles with hCards Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Persondata templates without short description parameter Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?e?tina Deutsch Espa?ol Français Edit links This page was last modified on 15 January 2014 at 18:04. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view