Case Western Reserve University - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Case Western Reserve University From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Case Western Reserve University The seal of Case Western Reserve University Motto Think Beyond the Possible Established WRU: 1826 CIT: 1880 CWRU: 1967 Type Private University Endowment US $1.6 billion (2012)[1] President Barbara R. Snyder Academic staff 2,400 full-time Undergraduates 4,227 Postgraduates 5,458 Location Cleveland, Ohio, U.S. Campus Urban, 155 acres (0.63 km2)[2] Colors CWRU Blue (PMS 294), White and CWRU Grey (PMS 7545)[3]                   Athletics NCAA Division III UAA 19 varsity teams Nickname Spartans[4] Website www.case.edu Case Western Reserve University (also known as Case Western Reserve, Case Western, Case, Reserve, and CWRU) is a private research university in Cleveland, Ohio, USA. The university was created in 1967 by the federation of Case Institute of Technology (founded in 1881 by Leonard Case Jr.) and Western Reserve University (founded in 1826 in the area that was once the Connecticut Western Reserve). TIME magazine described the merger as the creation of "Cleveland's Big-Leaguer" university.[5] In U.S. News & World Report's 2013 rankings, Case Western Reserve's undergraduate program ranked 37th among national universities.[6] The University is associated with 16 Nobel Laureates.[7] Other notable alumni include Paul Buchheit, creator and lead developer of Gmail; Craig Newmark, founder of craigslist.org; and Peter Tippett, who developed the anti-virus software, Vaccine, which Symantec purchased and turned into the popular Norton AntiVirus. Case Western Reserve is particularly well known[citation needed] for its medical school, dental school, law school, Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing, Department of Biomedical Engineering and its biomedical teaching and research capabilities. Case Western is a member of the Association of American Universities.[8] The university is approximately five miles (8 km) east of downtown Cleveland in University Circle. It is contained within a 550-acre (220 ha) area containing numerous educational, medical, and cultural institutions. Case Western Reserve has a number of programs taught in conjunction with nearby institutions, including the Cleveland Clinic, the University Hospitals of Cleveland, the Louis Stokes Cleveland Department of Veteran's Affairs Medical Center, Cleveland Institute of Music, the Cleveland Hearing & Speech Center, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, and the Cleveland Play House. Case Western Reserve was the site of the famous Michelson-Morley interferometer experiment, conducted in 1887 by A. A. Michelson of Case School of Applied Science and E. W. Morley of Western Reserve University. This experiment proved the non-existence of the luminiferous ether and was later cited as convincing evidence in support of special relativity as proposed by Albert Einstein in 1905. Michelson became the first American to win a Nobel Prize in science.[9] The commemorative Michelson-Morley Memorial Fountain is located on campus, near where the actual experiment was performed. Contents 1 History 1.1 Western Reserve University 1.2 Case Institute of Technology 1.3 Creating a federation 2 Campus 2.1 Kent H. Smith Quadrangle 2.2 Flora Stone Mather Quadrangle 2.3 North Residential Village 2.3.1 Village at 115 2.4 South Residential Village 2.5 Transportation 2.6 Parking 3 Academics 3.1 Rankings 3.2 Undergraduate profile 3.3 Schools and programs 3.4 Naming controversy 3.5 Endowment 3.6 Student body 4 Research 5 Student life 5.1 Music 5.2 Computing 5.3 Housing 5.4 Greek life 5.5 Traditions 5.6 Athletics 6 Notable people 6.1 Nobel Laureates 7 Alumni associations 7.1 Case Alumni Association 7.2 CWRU Alumni Relations 8 Cultural references 9 See also 10 References 11 External links History[edit] Case Western Reserve University was created in 1967, when Western Reserve University and Case Institute of Technology (formerly Case School of Applied Science), institutions that had been neighbors for 81 years, formally federated. Case alumnus Herbert Henry Dow, founder of Dow Chemical Western Reserve University[edit] Western Reserve College was founded in 1826 in Hudson, Ohio, which, at the time, was the region's most populated area and named for the Connecticut Western Reserve, out of which the area arose. The nearby city of Cleveland, located about 26 miles (42 km) to its northwest, had only begun to grow. Western Reserve College, or "Reserve" as it was popularly called, was the first college in northern Ohio.[10] By 1875, a number of other schools had been established nearby, and Cleveland had emerged as clearly the dominant population and business center of the region. In 1882, with funding from Amasa Stone, Western Reserve College moved to Cleveland and changed its name to Western Reserve University.[11] Case Institute of Technology[edit] John J.R. Macleod, 1923 Nobel Prize winner for discovering Insulin and Western Reserve University Professor of Physiology In 1877, Leonard Case Jr. began laying the groundwork for the Case School of Applied Science by secretly donating valuable pieces of Cleveland real estate to a trust. He asked his confidential advisor, Henry Gilbert Abbey, to administer the trust and to keep it secret until after his death. The Case School of Applied Science was issued a charter by the state of Ohio in 1882-—just four short months after Case's death. For the first four years of the school's existence, it was located in the Case family's home on Rockwell Street in downtown Cleveland. Classes were held in the family house, while the chemistry and physics laboratories were on the second floor of the barn. Amasa Stone's gift to relocate Western Reserve College to Cleveland also included a provision for the purchase of land in the University Circle area, adjacent to Western Reserve University, for the Case School of Applied Science. The school moved to University Circle in 1885. During World War II, Case Institute of Applied Science was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy commission.[12] Over time, the Case School of Applied Science grew to encompass a broader vision, adopting the name Case Institute of Technology in 1947 to reflect the institution's growing stature.[11] Creating a federation[edit] Although the trustees of Case Institute of Technology and Western Reserve University did not formally federate their institutions until 1967, the union had been seen by many as inevitable for decades before that.[5] The institutions already shared buildings and staff when necessary and worked together often. One such example was seen in 1887, when Case physicist Albert Michelson and Reserve chemist Edward Morley collaborated on the famous Michelson–Morley experiment. Morley's contribution was supplying liquid mercury to float Michelson's interferometer in. There had been some discussion of a merger of the two institutions as early as 1890, but those talks dissolved quickly. In the 1920s, the Survey Commission on Higher Education in Cleveland took a strong stand in favor of federation and the community was behind the idea as well, but in the end all that came of the study was a decision by the two institutions to cooperate in founding Cleveland College, a special unit for part-time and adult students in downtown Cleveland. By the 1960s, Reserve President John Schoff Millis and Case President T. Keith Glennan shared the idea that federation would create a complete university, one better able to attain national distinction. Financed by the Carnegie Corporation, Cleveland Foundation, Greater Cleveland Associated Foundation, and several local donors, a study commission of national leaders in higher education and public policy was charged with exploring the idea of federation. The Heald Commission, so known for its chair, former Ford Foundation President Henry T. Heald, issued its final report, "Vision of a University." The report predicted that federation would create one of the largest private universities in the nation, with a combined faculty larger than that of Princeton, Chicago, Stanford, or Johns Hopkins. Case Institute of Technology, a school of science and engineering, and Western Reserve University, known for its strong liberal arts and professional programs, came together in 1967 to form Case Western Reserve University.[13] Campus[edit] Haydn Hall on the campus of Case Western Reserve University (Flora Stone Mather Quadrangle) in Cleveland. The university is approximately five miles (eight km) east of downtown Cleveland, adjacent to the historic Wade Park District in University Circle, a city neighborhood and commercial center, home to numerous educational, medical, and other cultural institutions. Case Western Reserve has a number of programs taught in conjunction with nearby institutions, including the Cleveland Institute of Music, the Cleveland Institute of Art, the Cleveland Hearing & Speech Center, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, the Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland Botanical Garden, and the Cleveland Play House. Kent H. Smith Quadrangle[edit] The Kent H. Smith Quadrangle (known to students as the Main Quad) is located south of Euclid between Adelbert Road and Martin Luther King Jr. Drive. All of the engineering buildings are located on this quad in addition to all of the natural science buildings. Flora Stone Mather Quadrangle[edit] See also: Flora Stone Mather College Historic District The Flora Stone Mather Quadrangle (known to students as the Mather Quad) is located north of Euclid Avenue between East Blvd., E. 115th Street, and Juniper Road. Usually it is more strictly defined by the area between East Blvd, Bellflower Road, and Ford Road north of Euclid Avenue. Named for the philanthropist wife of prominent industrialist Samuel Mather and sister-in-law of the famous statesman John Hay, the Flora Stone Mather Quad is home to Weatherhead School of Management, School of Law, Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences, and many departments of the College of Arts and Sciences. The Kelvin Smith Library (Case Western Reserve's main library) and the Thwing Student Center are also located on Mather Quad. North Residential Village[edit] Situated on the northeast end of campus, the North Residential Village (NRV) is home to all Case Western Reserve's freshman who reside on campus. Constructed in the 1960s, the NRV consists of 12 4 floor buildings, an 11 floor "tower," Leutner (a dining hall), and a building containing the NRV area office and rehearsal space for Case Western Reserve's music department. Village at 115[edit] Located along E. 115th Street, this is the newest addition to Case Western Reserve's residential housing units, which opened in the fall of 2005. Currently, only upper-class members may reside there. The Village (as students refer to it) consists of seven houses that surround the football field and track. Village housing is apartment style, with apartments that house one to nine people (excluding eight person units). The apartments are fully furnished. The Village is also LEED certified. Houses 1-4 & 6-7 are certified silver while house 5 is certified gold. In February 2011, a broken pipe joint in the plumbing of House 6 caused over 500,000 US gallons (1,900 m3) of water to flood the House's apartments, displacing upwards of 40 students. Although University Housing had crews working to repair the damage around the clock, it was over a week before any students could return, some as long as three weeks. This raised concerns about cut corners resulting in poor construction quality of the Village Houses.[citation needed] South Residential Village[edit] Located between Murray Hill, Cedar, Edgehill, and Overlook roads, the South Residential Village (SRV) is home to most of Case Western Reserve's sophomore class. SRV is divided into two sections: Murray Hill Complex and Carlton Road Complex (known to students as bottom of the hill and top of the hill, respectively, due to the hill separating the two complexes). Carlton Road Complex includes three sophomore-only dormitories and several Greek life houses. Murray Hill Complex includes two sophomore only buildings, one sophomore and upperclassmen building, one upperclassmen-only building, and Fribley, the SRV dining hall. Transportation[edit] There are two main transportation options for students: For on- and near-campus transportation, Case Western Reserve has a fleet of shuttle buses known as Greenies, though they are currently painted blue.[citation needed] For longer trips, students may use the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (RTA) bus and rail system. Each undergraduate student receives an unlimited RTA pass, which is paid for via a mandatory $25 fee per semester. Parking[edit] Case Western Reserve does not manage its parking lots (Standard Parking manages the lots). Students, faculty, and staff still purchase permits from the university. The rates vary between approximately $30 and $120 per month. The university owns two parking garages, one at the Village at 115 (Lot S-46) and the other near the Veale Athletic Center (Lot S-53). Permits for these two lots are purchased from the university, and cost about $670 and $760, respectively, per year,[14] excluding the summer. Academics[edit] Rankings[edit] University rankings National ARWU[15] 53 Forbes[16] 89 U.S. News & World Report[17] 37 Washington Monthly[18] 4 Global ARWU[19] 99 QS[20] 164 Times[21] 88 In 2013, Washington Monthly ranked Case Western Reserve as the nation's 4th best national university for contributing to the public good. The publication's ranking was based upon a combination of factors including social mobility, research, and service.[22] In 2009, the school had ranked 15th.[23] In 2010, The Times ranked Case Western Reserve 39th in the U.S. and 65th worldwide.[24] In September 2009, "BusinessWeek" ranked Case Western Reserve's Weatherhead School of Management as one of the 30 best Design Thinking schools in the world.[25] In 2008, the National Science Foundation ranked Case Western Reserve #23 in the country for producing the highest percentage of undergraduate students that go on to earn Engineering and Science Ph.Ds.[26] Case Western Reserve is among the Top 25 LGBT-Friendly Colleges and Universities, according to Campus Pride, a national organization that aims to make universities safer and more inclusive for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) individuals. The recognition follows Case Western Reserve’s first five-star ranking on the Campus Pride Index, a detailed survey of universities’ policies, services and institutional support for LGBT individuals. Case Western Reserve ranks 13th among private institutions (26th among all) in federal expenditures for science and engineering research and development, per the National Science Foundation.[27] Undergraduate profile[edit] Craig Newmark (BS '75, MS '77) - founder of CraigsList The five most popular majors for 2011 graduates were Biomedical Engineering, Biology/Biological Sciences, Nursing, Mechanical Engineering, and Psychology. CWRU's undergraduate community is particularly well known for having a heavy focus on the fields of medicine and engineering. The Class of 2016 had 72 percent of students from out of the state of Ohio, 7 percent from outside of the United States. 74 percent graduated in the top 10 percent of their high school class. Median SAT scores (25% - 75%) were between 1280 and 1450. The median range for ACT scores was 29 to 33.[28] Schools and programs[edit] The university in its present form consists of eight schools:[29] College of Arts and Sciences School of Dental Medicine Case School of Engineering School of Law Weatherhead School of Management School of Medicine 'University Program' established in 1843 'College Program' at Cleveland Clinic Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences School of Graduate Studies Case also supports over a hundred 'Centers' in various fields.[30] Naming controversy[edit] The controversial "Case" logo In 2003, the university unveiled a new logo and branding campaign that emphasized the "Case" portion of its name. In 2006, interim university president Gregory Eastwood convened a task group to study reactions to the campaign. The panel's report indicated that it had gone so poorly that, "There appear to be serious concerns now about the university's ability to recruit and maintain high-quality faculty, fund-raising and leadership." Also, the logo was derided among the university's community and alumni and throughout northeastern Ohio; critics said it looked like "...a fat man with a surfboard."[31] In 2007, the university's board of trustees approved a shift back to giving equal weight to "Case" and "Western Reserve." A new logo was chosen and implementation began July 1.[32] In an open letter to the university community, interim president Eastwood admitted that "the university had misplaced its own history and traditions."[33] Endowment[edit] Case Western Reserve University's endowment ranks at No. 30 among all U.S. colleges and universities. The university comes in at No. 18 for largest endowment growth over the past 20 years, experiencing an increase of 393 percent in that time (See: List of U.S. colleges and universities by endowment). Student body[edit] As of 2012[update], the university had 4,386 undergraduate students and 5,640 graduate and professional students.[34] The undergraduate student body hails from all 50 states and over 100 countries.[35] Research[edit] Allen Memorial Medical Library DEXTER, Team Case's autonomous car, in DARPA Grand Challenge 2007 Following is a partial list of major contributions made by faculty, staff, and students at Case Western Reserve: Case Western Reserve was the site of the famous Michelson-Morley interferometer experiment, conducted in 1887 by Albert Abraham Michelson of Case Institute of Technology and E. W. Morley of Western Reserve University. This experiment proved the non-existence of the ether, and provided circumstantial evidence to substantiate Einstein's special theory of relativity (Profs. Albert A. Michelson and Edward W. Morley, 1887). Albert Abraham Michelson, who became the first American to win a Nobel Prize in science, taught at Case Institute of Technology. He won the prize in physics in 1907. Edward Morley, in 1895, made the most precise (to that date) determination of the atomic weight of oxygen, the basis for calculating the weights of all other elements. Dayton C. Miller, in 1896, performed the first full X-ray of the human body—on himself. George W. Crile, in 1905, performed the first modern blood transfusion, using a coupling device to connect blood vessels. Roger G. Perkins, in 1912, pioneered drinking water chlorination to eradicate typhoid bacilli. Henry J. Gerstenberger, in 1915, developed simulated infant formula. Claude S. Beck, in 1935, pioneered surgical treatment of coronary artery disease. Frederick S. Cross, in the 1950s, developed the first heart-lung machine used during open heart surgery. Claude S. Beck, in 1947, performed the first successful lifesaving defibrillation of the human heart and developed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Robert Kearns, in 1964, invented the intermittent windshield wiper used in most modern automobiles. Frederick Reines, in 1965, first detected neutrinos created by cosmic ray collisions with the Earth's atmosphere and developed innovative particle detectors. Case Western Reserve had selected Prof. Reines as chair of the physics department based on Reines's work that first detected neutrinos emitted from a nuclear reactor—work for which Reines shared a 1995 Nobel Prize.[36] Eric Baer, in 1967, pioneered the materials science of polymers and created the first comprehensive polymer science and engineering department at a major U.S. university. Joseph F. Fagan, in 1987, developed a test for infants to identify mental retardation within one year of birth. Huntington F. Willard of the School of Medicine and University Hospitals of Cleveland—collaborating with colleagues at Athersys, Inc., in 1997—created the first artificial human chromosomes, opening the door to more detailed study of human genetics and potentially offering a new approach to gene therapy. Tshilidzi Marwala, in 2006, began work on Local Loop Unbundling in Africa. He also chaired the Local Loop Unbundling Committee on behalf of the South African Government. Roger Quinn, in 2001, developed robots such as Whegs that mimic cockroaches and other crawling insects (Case Biorobotics Lab)[37] In 2007, a team from Case Western Reserve participated in the DARPA Urban Challenge with a robotic car named DEXTER. Team Case placed as one of 36 semi-finalists.[38] DEXTER was the only car in the race without any seating for humans, and the only one built from scratch as a robot car.[39][not in citation given] Today, the university operates several facilities off campus for scientific research. One notable example of this is the Warner and Swasey Observatory at Kitt Peak National Observatory in Arizona. Student life[edit] Unless students are living with a relative within 40 miles (64 km) of the university, Case Western Reserve requires first- and second-year students to live in on-campus housing. Meal plan participation is also mandatory for first- and second-year students, with some exceptions made for religious and medical reasons. New housing for underclassmen, along with a "Greek village," bringing all the college's fraternities and sororities together with the other undergraduates, is slated to be constructed in the future. The residence halls are divided into two areas, one featuring suite-style rooms for second-year students and upperclassmen and the other featuring double and single rooms for first-year students. Both have gigabit ethernet network access and the wired network is one of the fastest that exists. A wireless campus network is also available anywhere on campus and ranked as one of the fastest by Intel in 2005. New housing, known as the Village at 115, was opened in fall 2005 for upperclassmen, which features one- to nine-person, "apartment-style" residence halls that come with air conditioning, a full kitchen area, and full-sized beds. Residence Life at Case Western Reserve has a recent history of being liberal in its policies, including allowing co-ed suites (an option offered to non-freshman students, when requested and agreed upon by all occupants of a suite) and some co-ed floors for freshmen, as well as a three-day guest policy. Pets are allowed except for dogs, cats, ferrets, and a few other small mammals, but requests are granted discussion. Graduate students are not offered housing. A campus shuttle runs to Coventry Village, a shopping district in neighboring Cleveland Heights. Cleveland's Little Italy is within walking distance. Legacy Village, Severance Center, and Shaker Square shopping centers are all within driving distance or accessible by RTA. Music[edit] WRUW-FM (91.1 FM) is the campus radio station of Case Western Reserve University. Its motto "More Music, Fewer Hits" can be seen adorning the rear bumpers of many vehicles in the area. WRUW broadcasts at a power of 15,000 watts and covers most of Northeast Ohio 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. WRUW is staffed by Case Western Reserve students and community volunteers. The station's format can be classified as non-commercial "variety." Case Western Reserve is also home to several performing ensembles, including a cappella groups such as the Case Men's Glee Club, Case Women's Glee Club, Case in Point, Speakeasy, Dhamakapella, Bigger Than A Breadbox, and Solstice. Other ensembles include the Case/University Circle Symphony Orchestra, Camerata Chamber Orchestra, Case/CIM Baroque Orchestra, Concert Choir, Early Music Singers, Jazz Ensemble 1 and 2, Marching Spartans, Percussion Ensemble, Symphonic Winds, University Singers, Collegium Musicum, New Music Ensemble, Wind Ensemble, and Chamber Music. Case Western Reserve has two main rehearsal spaces for performing arts music majors and school ensembles. Hadyn Hall contains practice rooms with Steinway pianos, along with the department offices. Denison Hall serves as a rehearsal, practice, and teaching space for the music students and school ensembles, and is attached to Wade Commons. The Cleveland Youth Wind Symphony also rehearses in Denison Hall. Music majors take lessons at the Cleveland Institute of Music. For performances, all students, ensembles, and cappella groups use Harkness Chapel. The bands and orchestra also perform at Severance Hall (the on-campus home of the Cleveland Orchestra) and CIM's Kulas Hall. Computing[edit] Case Western Reserve had the first ABET-accredited program in computer engineering.[40] In 1968, the university formed a private company, Chi Corporation, to provide computer time to both it and other customers. Initially this was on a Univac 1108 (replacing the preceding UNIVAC 1107), 36 bit, one's complement machine.[41] The company was sold in 1977 to Robert G. Benson in Beachwood, Ohio. Project Logos, under ARPA contract, was begun within the department on a DEC System-10 (later converted to TENEX (BBN) in conjunction with connection to the ARPANET) to develop a computer-aided computer design system. This system consisted in a distributed, networked, graphics environment, a control and data flow designer and logic (both hardware and software) analyzer. Graphics and animation became another departmental focus with the acquisition of an Evans & Sutherland LDS-1, which was hosted by the DEC System-10, and later with the acquisition of the stand alone LDS-2. Case Western Reserve was one of the earliest universities connected to the ARPANET, predecessor to the Internet. ARPANET went online in 1969; Case Western Reserve was connected in January, 1971.[42] Case Western Reserve graduate Ken Biba published the Biba Integrity Model in 1977 and served on the ARPA Working Group that developed the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) used on the Internet. Case Western Reserve pioneered the early Free-net computer systems, creating the first Free-net, The Cleveland Free-Net, as well as writing the software that drove a majority of those systems, known as FreePort. The Cleveland Free-Net was shut down in late 1999, as it had become obsolete. It was the first university to have an all-fiber-optic network, in 1989.[43][44] At the inaugural meeting in October, 1996, Case Western Reserve was one of the 34 charter university members of Internet2.[45] The university was ranked No. 1 in Yahoo Internet Life's 1999 Most Wired College list.[46] There was a perception that this award was obtained through partially false or inaccurate information submitted for the survey,[47] and the university did not appear at all on the 2000 Most Wired College list (which included 100 institutions). The numbers reported were much lower than those submitted by Ray Neff in 1999.[43][48][49] The university had previously placed No. 13 in the 1997 poll.[50] In August 2003, Case Western Reserve joined the Internet Streaming Media Alliance, then one of only two university members.[51] In September 2003, Case Western Reserve opened 1,230 public wireless access points on the Case Western Reserve campus and University Circle.[52] Case Western Reserve was one of the founding members of OneCleveland, formed in October 2003.[53] OneCleveland is an "ultra broadband" (gigabit speed) fiber optic network. This network is for the use of organizations in education, research, government, healthcare, arts, culture, and the nonprofit sector in Greater Cleveland. Case Western Reserve is also known for its Virtual Worlds gaming computer lab, which opened in 2005. The lab has a large network of Alienware PCs equipped with game development software such as the Torque Game Engine and Maya 3D modeling software. Additionally, it contains a number of specialized advanced computing rooms including a medical simulation room, a MIDI instrument music room, a 3D projection "immersion room," a virtual reality research room, and console room, which features video game systems such as Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Wii.[54] This laboratory can be used by any student in the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department, and is heavily used for the Game Development (EECS 290) course. Case Western's Internet Technology Service also runs a High Performance Computing Cluster (HPCC) utilizing 2684 processors over 200 computer nodes interconnected with gigabit fiberoptic ethernet. The HPCC is available for research utilizing a wide array of commercial and custom scientific software packages and computer languages including: Matlab, Mathematica, Ansys CFX Fluent and ICEM, Schr?dinger, LAMMPS, Gaussian, NEURON, MCell, Python, Qhull, Sundials, Charmm/qchem, Rosetta, Gromacs, NAMD, C, C++, Fortran. Housing[edit] First-year students are grouped into one of four residential colleges that are overseen by first-year coordinators. The Mistletoe, Juniper, and Magnolia residential colleges were established when the "First Year Experience" system was introduced, and Cedar was created in the fall of 2005 to accommodate a large influx of new students. In the fall of 2007, Magnolia was integrated into Mistletoe, however, it was later re-separated in the fall of 2012. The areas of focus for each college are – Cedar: visual and performing arts; Mistletoe: service leadership; Juniper: multiculturalism and Magnolia: sustainability.[55] Magnolia now includes Clarke Tower, which also houses second year students as well as first year students. The residential colleges plan events together and are run by college councils that take student input and use it to plan social and community service-oriented activities. Greek life[edit] Nearly one-third of the campus undergraduates are in a fraternity or sorority. There are eight sororities and fifteen fraternities currently on campus. Greek organizations are governed by an Interfraternity Council and Panhellenic Council. During the 2010–2011 school year, fraternities and sororities at Case collectively raised over $45,375 for philanthropy.[56] In September 2010, the Delta Chi Fraternity joined the Greek community, achieving chapter status in October 2012. In September 2012, Pi Beta Phi sorority began a colonization effort. In the Spring of 2013, Delta Sigma Phi Fraternity began colonization efforts as well. The fraternities are: Beta Theta Pi Delta Chi Delta Tau Delta Delta Sigma Phi Delta Upsilon Phi Delta Theta Phi Gamma Delta Phi Kappa Psi Phi Kappa Tau Phi Kappa Theta Sigma Chi Sigma Nu Sigma Phi Epsilon Theta Chi Zeta Beta Tau Zeta Psi The sororities are: Alpha Chi Omega Alpha Phi Delta Gamma Kappa Alpha Theta Phi Mu Phi Sigma Rho Pi Beta Phi Sigma Psi From 1937 to 2001 there was a German-American Studentenverbindung situated in Cleveland called Corps Brandenburgia Berlin zu Cleveland. It consisted mainly of students from the German nobility. Together with the Corps Teuto-Rugia, they formed the SC zu Cleveland. Traditions[edit] The Hudson Relays is an annual tradition at Case Western Reserve University that occurs on the last weekend before finals every spring semester. It is a relay race between teams drawn from each class year. The race is a distance of 26 miles (42 km). Originally, the race was run from Hudson, Ohio, the original site of Western Reserve University, to the present location of the school in University Circle. Since the mid-1980s, the race has been run entirely in the University Circle area. University tradition is that if a class wins the relay for each of its four years, the team will be rewarded with a champagne and steak dinner with the president of the university. The most recent class to achieve this was the class of 2011. The winning class for each year is carved on a boulder located behind Adelbert Hall. Springfest is a day-long concert and student group festival that occurs later in the same day as Hudson Relays. The Springfest Planning Committee brings in several bands and a beer garden, student groups set up booths to entertain the student body, and various inflatable carnival-style attractions are brought in to add to the festive atmosphere. Occasionally, due to adverse weather conditions, the festival must be moved indoors, usually to Thwing Center or Adelbert Gym. Halloween at the Farm is a tradition established in the fall of 2002. Halloween at the Farm takes place at the Squire Valleevue Farm in Hunting Valley, Ohio. Students, their families, and faculty are invited to enjoy games, a bonfire, an open air concert and hay rides. Organized by the members of the Class Officer Collective, HATF is one of the biggest events of the year. In the fall of 2009 the event was moved to the main campus and renamed "Halloween at Home". Since 1974, the Film Society of Case Western Reserve University has held a science fiction marathon. The film festival, the oldest of its type, boasts more than 34 hours of non-stop movies, cartoons, trailers, and shorts spanning many decades and sub-genres. Athletics[edit] The Veale Athletic Center, which houses much of the Case Western Reserve University athletic and Physical Education departments. Case Western Reserve University has been a member of the University Athletic Association (UAA) since the early 1990s. The conference participates in the National Collegiate Athletic Association's (NCAA) Division III. The university offers 10 men's sports and nine women's sports. Two of the teams attained unprecedented success in the fall of 2006, with the women's cross country team winning the Great Lakes regional championship for the first time, and the men's soccer team earning its first-ever NCAA tournament bid. The Case Western Reserve Men's Soccer team finished their 2006 season with a 17–2–2 record and a UAA championship. The team reached the Sweet 16 in their first-ever NCAA Division III tournament appearance and concluded the season ranked 12th in the nation. Case Western Reserve has an excellent cross country program, as evidenced by their finishes at the NCAA national competition over the past three years. The Case Western Reserve's women's cross country team finished the 2006 season with a UAA Championship and a bid to the NCAA Championship. The Lady Spartans finished 10th in the nation. The women's team went on to finish even higher at nationals in 2007, earning a sixth-place finish at the NCAA DIII national championship. Both the men's and women's Cross Country teams qualified for and competed in the NCAA DIII national championships in 2008, with the women's team coming away with two All-Americans and a 16th-place finish. In 2009, they had two All-Americans and finished 15th. In 2010, the lady Spartans finished 19th, with one all-American, senior Justine Jeroski. The Case Western Reserve football team finished the 2007 season with the school's first UAA Championship in football, first playoff appearance, and first playoff win against Widener University. The team lost to Wabash College in the second round. Case Western Reserve football had another undefeated regular season in 2008 but lost in the first round of the NCAA Division III playoffs to Wabash College. In 2009, the team finished its 3rd consecutive undefeated regular season and won the UAA. It earned a 3rd straight playoff appearance, losing in the first round to Trine University. Beginning with the 2014 season, the football team will be moving to the Presidents' Athletic Conference. All other sports will remain in the University Athletic Association. Case Western Reserve's primary athletic rival is Carnegie Mellon University. Notable people[edit] Main article: List of Case Western Reserve University people Nobel Laureates[edit] Case Western's 2003 Nobel Prize winners - Paul C. Lauterbur and Peter Agre (1st and 2nd from right) with President George Walker Bush 16 Nobel Laureates associated with Case Western Reserve University[7] Year Recipient Prize Details 1907 Albert Michelson Physics First American scientist to win the Nobel Prize 1923 John J.R. Macleod Medicine Discovery of Insulin 1938 Corneille Heymans Medicine Carotid sinus reflex 1954 Frederick C. Robbins Medicine Polio vaccine. Dean of CaseMed 1955 Polykarp Kusch Physics BS in physics in 1931 1960 Donald A. Glaser Physics BS in physics in 1946 1971 Earl W. Sutherland Jr. Medicine Professor and chair of pharmacology 1980 Paul Berg Chemistry PhD in 1952 1988 George H. Hitchings Medicine 1994 Alfred G. Gilman Medicine MD and PhD in 1969 1994 Ferid Murad Medicine MD and PhD in 1965. Current Trustee of Case 1994 George A. Olah Chemistry Professor and chair of chemistry 1995 Frederick Reines Physics Professor and chair of physics 2003 Paul C. Lauterbur Physiology or Medicine BS in chemistry 2003 Peter Agre Chemistry Instructor, 1978 Internal Medicine alumnus 2004 Edward C. Prescott Economics MS in operations research in 1964 Alumni associations[edit] Throughout the years, many higher education institutions merged to form what is now known as Case Western Reserve University. Even though the colleges do not exist individually, two alumni associations are still thriving. Case Alumni Association[edit] The Case Alumni Association (CAA) is one of the oldest independent alumni organization in the United States, having been organized in 1885. Membership in the Association is conferred upon all graduates of the Case School of Applied Science, Case Institute of Technology, Case School of Engineering, and the mathematics and science departments within the College of Arts and Sciences. Those who have attended any of the above institutions for at least one semester are considered members of the association. The main offices returned to campus in November 2010 at Tomlinson Hall, 2121 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, Cleveland, Ohio, 44106. CAA recently expanded its reach by establishing chapters (Case Clubs) in various U.S. cities, including Washington, D.C., Silicon Valley, San Diego, Los Angeles, Phoenix and Boston.[57] CWRU Alumni Relations[edit] Case Western Reserve University Alumni Relations is the primary alumni association for any alumni who have attend CWRU for at least one semester. Cultural references[edit] The 1997 Air Force One was in part filmed on Case campus. The opening scene depicting the presidential palace of the leader of Kazakhstan was shot at Severance Hall - home of the Cleveland Orchestra adjacent to Case campus. Also seen are several landmarks of Case including the Thwing Center (the student union) and the Allen Memorial Medical Library. In the 1999 film Being John Malkovich, Mary Kay Place's character - Floris - is mentioned to have received "her doctorate in speech impedimentology from Case Western." In the 2001 film The Man Who Wasn't There, it is mentioned that the James Gandolfini character 'Big Dave Brewster' attended Case Western. In the 2003 book Mountains Beyond Mountains, Tracy Kidder talks about Paul Farmer choosing to apply to only two MD/PhD-anthropology programs in the nation - CaseMed and Harvard Medical School.[58] The 2004 Vice-Presidential Debate between then Vice-President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards was held on Case Western campus.[59] In the 2006 film The Oh in Ohio, Paul Rudd's character - Jack - becomes romantically involved with a Case student Kristin (played by Mischa Barton). In one scene, Jack drops Kristin off at the "Case Biophysics building," which is actually the Frank Gehry designed Peter B. Lewis Building at Case's Weatherhead School of Management. In this scene, a number of actual Case Western Reserve students were cast as extras, and had minor speaking roles. In "Drew's Cousin," a 1998 installment of The Drew Carey Show's third season, the episode's namesake mentions to Drew that she "got into Case Western." In 2008, the movie Flash of Genius detailed the story of Robert Kearns, who graduated from Case Institute of Technology. The movie is about how he designed the first intermittent windshield wipers, and his battle against the automobile industry to get recognition for his invention. In 2010, the show The Deep End on ABC features a main character, Addy Fisher, who graduated from Case Western Reserve Law School.[60] See also[edit] List of Case Western Reserve University people Weatherhead School of Management Association of Independent Technological Universities References[edit] ^ http://www.nacubo.org/Documents/research/2012NCSEPublicTablesEndowmentMarketValuesRevisedFebruary42013.pdf ^ USNews.com: America's Best Colleges 2008: Case Western Reserve University: Campus Life ^ Marketing&Communications: Case Western Reserve University ^ Case Western Reserve University Varsity Sports ^ a b TIME magazine reports on CWRU creation - http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,841260,00.html ^ "Case Western Reserve University - Best Colleges - Education - US News and World Report". Colleges.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com. 2011-09-13. Retrieved 2011-09-13.  ^ a b "Nobel Prize winners". CWRU. 2010-03-17. Retrieved 2010-03-17.  ^ "Association of American Universities Membership".  ^ - Case faculty 1st American to get Science Nobel ^ "Visiting Case: Case Western Reserve University". Case.edu. Retrieved 2010-02-22. [dead link] ^ a b "Visiting Case: Case Western Reserve University". Case.edu. Retrieved 2010-02-22. [dead link] ^ "Deceased Classmates in the Year 1950-1959". United States Naval Academy. 2011. Retrieved September 29, 2011.  ^ "Visiting Case: Case Western Reserve University". Case.edu. 1967-07-01. Retrieved 2010-02-22. [dead link] ^ "Case Parking". Parking.case.edu. Retrieved 2011-12-06.  ^ "World University Rankings". ShanghaiRanking Consultancy. Retrieved October 19, 2013.  ^ "America's Top Colleges". Forbes.com LLC™. Retrieved October 19, 2013.  ^ "Best Colleges". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved October 19, 2013.  ^ "About the Rankings". Washington Monthly. Retrieved October 19, 2013.  ^ "World University Rankings". ShanghaiRanking Consultancy. Retrieved October 19, 2013.  ^ "University Rankings". QS Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. Retrieved October 19, 2013.  ^ "World University Rankings". TSL Education Ltd. Retrieved October 19, 2013.  ^ National University Rankings 2013. Washington Monthly. Retrieved on 2013-09-04. ^ "Washington Monthly". Washington Monthly. Retrieved 2012-04-16.  ^ "Top 200 - The Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2010-2011". Timeshighereducation.co.uk. Retrieved 2012-04-16.  ^ Top 60 Design thinking Schools in the World ^ NCSES Baccalaureate Origins of S&E Doctorate Recipients - US National Science Foundation ^ Case ranks 13th in research: http://www.case.edu/president/cir/cirrankings.htm ^ [1] date=January 2013 ^ Case Schools and Programs - http://www.case.edu/schools/index.html ^ "Case Western Reserve University - Centers and Institutes". Case.edu. Retrieved 2010-02-22.  ^ Branding Task Group to end logo woes ^ Logo, Mark & Graphic Identity Task Force: Case Western Reserve University ^ Logo, Mark & Graphic Identity Task Force: Case Western Reserve University ^ "Registrar Statistics". Retrieved 25 November 2012.  ^ "CWRU About". Retrieved 25 November 2012.  ^ University of California: In Memoriam, 1998 ^ http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.83.4010&rep=rep1&type=pdf ^ Team Case ^ Organ Donation for Robot Car | Danger Room from Wired.com ^ Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science ^ Chi Corporation Code Card ^ A Brief History of the Internet ^ a b "Fiber to the Dorm Room". Slashdot. June 2, 2004. Retrieved 2007-11-10.  ^ CWRU Magazine - Spring 1999 | F e a t u r e : The Heart of Campus ^ Internet2 ^ CWRU is Yahoo's most-wired campus ^ The Chronicle of Higher Education ^ Network rankings ^ Whalen, Elizabeth (April 21, 2000). "CWRU plummets in Yahoo! wired rankings". The Observer. Retrieved 2007-11-10.  ^ June '97 @CWRU ^ Case joins leading-edge Internet Streaming Consortium ^ Case Unveils Nation's Largest Free, Public Wireless Service ^ "Case Western Reserve, OneCommunity Bring Free Wireless to Hopkins Airport: News Center: Marketing and Communications: Case Western Reserve University". Blog.case.edu. 2009-12-18. Retrieved 2010-02-22.  ^ EECS Department: Virtual Worlds Laboratory[dead link] ^ "Residential Colleges for First-Year Students - CWRU Housing & Residence Life". Students.case.edu. Retrieved 2012-11-08.  ^ "Discover Greek Life at Case! - Case Office of Greek Life". Studentaffairs.case.edu. Retrieved 2012-11-25.  ^ "Case Alumni Association - Home". http://www.casealum.org. Retrieved 2010-02-22.  ^ Kidder T. Mountains Beyond Mountains: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer, A Man Who Would Cure the World. Random House (2004). p64. ^ Cheney and Edwards Vice presidential debate: Vice Presidential Debate – Vice President Cheney (R) and Sen. John Edwards (D) ^ Case Law on The Deep End – Hulu - The Deep End: Pilot - Watch the full episode now External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Case Western Reserve University. Official website Official athletics website v t e Case Western Reserve University Academics Colleges and Schools: Case School of Dental Medicine Case School of Engineering College of Arts and Sciences Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing Frederick K. Cox International Law Center Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences NEO CANDO School of Graduate Studies School of Law School of Medicine Weatherhead School of Management Campus Adelbert Hall Allen Memorial Medical Library Case Medical Center Dittrick Museum of Medical History Flora Stone Mather Quadrangle Kent H. Smith Quadrangle Mather House Michelson-Morley Memorial Fountain Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital University Circle Warner and Swasey Observatory People List of Case Western Reserve University people Student life Athletics Case Western Reserve Journal of International Law The Observer Student body WRUW-FM Traditions Baird Brothers Trophy v t e University Athletic Association Brandeis Judges Carnegie Mellon Tartans Case Western Reserve Spartans Chicago Maroons Emory Eagles NYU Violets Rochester Yellowjackets Washington University Bears v t e Association of American Universities (AAU) Public Arizona University of California Berkeley Davis Irvine Los Angeles San Diego Santa Barbara Colorado Florida Georgia Tech Illinois Indiana Iowa Iowa State Kansas Maryland Michigan Michigan State Minnesota Missouri State University of New York Buffalo Stony Brook North Carolina Ohio State Oregon Penn State Pittsburgh Purdue Rutgers Texas Texas A&M Virginia Washington Wisconsin Private Boston U Brandeis Brown Caltech Carnegie Mellon Case Western Chicago Columbia Cornell Duke Emory Harvard Johns Hopkins MIT Northwestern NYU Penn Princeton Rice Rochester USC Stanford Tulane Vanderbilt Wash U Yale Canadian McGill Toronto v t e Universities Research Association United States Alabama Arizona Arizona State Boston University Brown University of California Berkeley Davis Irvine Los Angeles Riverside Santa Barbara San Diego Caltech Carnegie Mellon Case Western Reserve Chicago Colorado Columbia Cornell Duke Florida Florida State Harvard Hawaii Houston IIT Illinois at Urbana–Champaign Illinois at Chicago Indiana Iowa Iowa State Johns Hopkins LSU Maryland MIT Michigan Michigan State Minnesota Nebraska New Mexico New Mexico State North Carolina North Texas Northeastern Northern Illinois Northwestern Notre Dame Ohio State Oklahoma Oregon Penn State Pittsburgh Princeton Purdue Rice Rochester Rockefeller Rutgers SMU South Carolina State University of New York Buffalo Stony Brook Stanford Syracuse Tennessee University of Texas Arlington Austin Dallas Texas A&M Texas Tech Tufts Tulane Utah Vanderbilt Virginia Virginia Tech Washington Washington University Wayne State William & Mary Wisconsin Yale International McGill Pisa Toronto Waseda Manchester UCL v t e Colleges & Universities in the State of Ohio Private Antioch College The Art Academy of Cincinnati Baldwin-Wallace College Bluffton University Capital University Case Western Reserve University Cedarville University Cincinnati Christian University Cleveland Institute of Art Cleveland Institute of Electronics Cleveland Institute of Music University of Dayton Defiance College Denison University The University of Findlay Hebrew Union College Heidelberg College Hiram College John Carroll University Kenyon College Kettering College of Medical Arts Marietta College Mount Union College Muskingum University Myers University University of Northwestern Ohio Notre Dame College Oberlin College Ohio Northern University Ohio Wesleyan University Otterbein College College of Mount Saint Joseph Mount Vernon Nazarene University Ohio College of Podiatric Medicine University of Rio Grande Tiffin University Urbana University Ursuline College Walsh University Wilberforce University Wilmington College Wittenberg University College of Wooster Xavier University Public University of Akron Belmont Technical College Bowling Green State University Central Ohio Technical College Central State University Cincinnati State Technical and Community College University of Cincinnati Clark State Community College Cleveland State University Columbus State Community College Cuyahoga Community College Edison Community College Hocking College James A. Rhodes State College Jefferson Community College Kent State University Lakeland Community College Lorain County Community College Marion Technical College Miami University NEOUCOM North Central State College Northwest State Community College Ohio State University Ohio University Owens Community College Shawnee State University Sinclair Community College Southern State Community College Stark State College Terra Community College University of Toledo Washington State Community College Wright State University Youngstown State University Zane State College University System of Ohio Coordinates: 41°30?15?N 81°36?30?W? / ?41.50416°N 81.60845°W? / 41.50416; -81.60845 Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Case_Western_Reserve_University&oldid=586564093" Categories: Association of American Universities Association of Independent Technological Universities Case Western Reserve University North Central Association of Colleges and Schools Universities and colleges in Cleveland, Ohio Western Reserve Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from September 2010 Articles with dead external links from April 2012 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2011 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2011 Articles with unsourced statements from August 2012 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2012 All articles containing potentially dated statements Commons category template with no category set Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ????? Deutsch ÝÇÑÓ? Français ??? ??? Norsk bokm?l äÌÇÈ? Polski Português ??????? Svenska ??? ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 17 December 2013 at 23:21. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view